Chapter 28: At the doctor's
1. Describing feeling unwell
Describe how you feel

Are you feeling okay?
You look tired. Are you feeling okay?
You didn't eat your lunch. Are you feeling okay?

Here, we use the "-ing" form "feeling" 
as we are asking about someone's current health.

Are you sick?
You didn't come to school today. Are you sick?
You weren't at work today. Are you sick?

Here, the question "Are you sick?" is used 
to ask about someone's physical health.

to feel sick
Do you feel sick?
I felt sick on the plane.

"to feel sick" or "to be sick"?
We often use "to feel sick" to express discomfort 
or nausea.

We can use "to be sick" to mean having an illness 
in general, or to refer to vomiting. 
In the US, it's common to use "to be sick" 
to refer to being unwell in general.

She felt sick during the car journey home.
to express discomfort or nausea

I can't come to work today because I'm sick.
to have an illness in general

She was sick immediately after the roller coaster ride.
to refer to vomiting

He says "I feel sick when I travel by boat", 
which means he feels ill or nauseous.

to get over
I hope you get over this flu quickly.

It took me a week to get over my cold.
The phrase "to get over" can mean to recover 
from an illness (like a "cold").

Here, "to get over" means she's trying 
to recover from an illness ("a cold").

Are you feeling okay?
You seem quiet today. Are you feeling okay?

Are you sick?
He's been in bed all day. Is he sick?
I always feel sick on long car journeys.

He felt sick because he ate too much chocolate.

I've just got over a cold.
I've just recovered from a cold.
She finally got over the flu last week.

VOCABULARY
Are you feeling okay?
Are you sick?
to feel sick
to get over

2. Identifying physical symptoms
Describe physical symptoms

sore
I have a sore throat.
She says "I have a sore arm", which means 
she is experiencing pain in her arm.

to have a headache
I have a headache.
I have a headache; I think I need to rest.

We can say "to have a headache" when
we have pain in our head.

"sore", "ache" or "pain in"?
We usually use "sore" to describe pain 
in our throat or muscles.
We often use "ache" to talk about pain in our head or muscles.
We can use "pain in" with any body part.

I have a sore throat from singing too much.
I get a headache if I don't drink enough water.
I have a pain in my back from working all day.

sore - throat or muscles
ache - head or muscles
pain in - any body part

We say: "a sore throat", "a headache" and "pain in my back".

to have a temperature
I have a temperature.

She had a temperature last night.
We can use "to have a temperature" when someone 
has a higher body temperature than normal.

to suffer
He's really suffering with this cold.
I suffer from allergies in the spring.

We can use "to suffer from" with an illness 
or medical condition (like "allergies").

to have a cold
I have a cold.
I have a horrible cold at the moment.
Here, we use "to have a cold" because 
she is currently experiencing it.

to pick up a bug
I think I've picked up a bug at school.
he phrase "to pick up a bug" is an informal 
way of saying to catch a minor illness.

We use "to pick up a bug" to describe getting sick 
with a common and usually short-term illness.

"to have", "to catch" or "to pick up"?
We use "to have" when someone is currently 
experiencing an illness (like a "cold").

We can use "to catch" to describe the initial 
moment or period when someone becomes ill.

The phrase "to pick up" can also be used to 
describe the moment someone becomes ill, typically 
when an illness is caught in a public place or 
through casual contact.

She's had a cold for over a week.
He caught the flu last month; it lasted for two weeks.
I think I picked up this cold at the office.

to have
when currently experiencing an illness

to catch - when someone first becomes ill

to pick up
when someone catches an illness in a public place

I have a sore back.
We can say "I have a sore back" or "I have 
backache" to mean that our back hurts.

I have a sore throat.

Please be quiet, I have a headache!
Notice that "headache" is one word 
which is formed from the words "head" and "ache".

She says "my son has a temperature", 
which means his temperature is higher than normal.

He has a temperature; we should call the doctor.
I suffer from headaches.
I suffer from back pain.

Do you have a cold?
I picked up a bug at the office.

We use "to have" with a current illness and "
to pick up" for the moment we catch an illness.

I hope I don't pick up a bug this winter.
I have a cold and a sore throat.

VOCABULARY
sore
to have a headache
to have a temperature
to suffer
to have a cold
to pick up a bug

3. Making a doctor's appointment
Listen to someone making an appointment

to see a doctor
Do you need to see a doctor?
I need to see a doctor about my cough.

The phrase "to see a doctor" means visiting a 
medical professional for health-related issues.

Here, "to see a doctor" means visiting a doctor 
for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.

to make an appointment
I need to make an appointment to see my doctor.

I'll make an appointment with the doctor tomorrow.

We usually use the verb "to make" with the noun 
"appointment", not the verb "to take".

She says "I've made an appointment with my 
doctor", which means a meeting at a set time.

to have a checkup
I have a checkup at the doctor's today.
I'm going to have a checkup next Tuesday.

Here, a "checkup" is a medical examination 
to make sure you are healthy.

A "checkup" is typically a routine visit 
to a healthcare professional.

to take medication
He forgot to take his medication last night.

Don't forget to take your medication.

The phrase "to take medication" means 
using medicine to prevent or treat an illness.

You should use medicine to prevent or treat an illness.
You should take your medication.

The phrase "to take medication" can refer 
to any medicine used for treating an illness.

"medicine" or "medication"?
The term "medicine" can refer to the study and 
treatment of illness and injury, or to a substance 
used for medical treatment. It is more commonly 
used in everyday language.

The term "medication" also refers to a drug or 
medicine but is often used in more clinical or 
formal contexts.

She is studying medicine.
the study and treatment of illness and injury

I need to take some cough medicine.
a substance used for medical treatment

The doctor prescribed her medication for her sore back.
a drug or medicine, often used in clinical or formal contexts

We might use the term "medication" in a more 
formal situation than we would use "medicine".

to prescribe
The doctor prescribed medication for my cough.

My doctor prescribed painkillers after my surgery.
The verb "to prescribe" means writing an order 
for specific medication.

He says "my doctor prescribed me medication", 
which means the doctor wrote an order for medication.

Receptionist: Good morning, Riverside Medical Centre. 
How can I help you today?

Patient: 
Hello, I'd like to see a doctor about my allergies. 
Can I make an appointment for Wednesday?

Receptionist: Of course. 
We have an opening on Wednesday morning.

Patient: Yes, that's perfect. 
I just need to have a checkup. Is that okay?

Receptionist: Not a problem. 
Do you take any medication for your allergies?

Patient: No, I don't take any medication.

Receptionist: Okay, great. The doctor will be able 
to prescribe you something if needed.

Patient: Great, thank you.


I'd like to see a doctor about my allergies.

Here, "to see a doctor" means he wants to visit 
a medical professional for health-related issues.

VOCABULARY
to see a doctor
to make an appointment
to have a checkup
to take medication
to prescribe

4. Understanding remedies
Learn common phrases doctors use

to get some rest
The doctor said to get some rest to recover faster.

After surgery, you need to get some rest.

We can use "to get some rest" to talk about
a period of relaxation, sleep or doing nothing.

She says he needs to relax, sleep or do nothing.
We can use "to get some rest" to emphasise 
the importance of rest for recovery from an illness.

to eat well
Doctors advise patients to eat well after surgery.
It's important to eat well to stay healthy.

The phrase "to eat well" means consuming a healthy 
and balanced diet.

to eat well
We can use "to eat well" to stress the importance 
of good nutrition for health.

to help
Exercise helps keep your heart healthy.

Tea will help your sore throat.
In a medical context, "to help" is often used to 
describe an action that can improve your health.

to keep away from
You need to keep away from alcohol 
while taking this medication.

I keep away from cats because of my allergies.
We often use "to keep away from" to imply 
a physical distancing from something specific.

to steer clear of
I steer clear of coffee in the evenings.
My mother told me to steer clear of smoking.

We can use "to steer clear of" to talk 
about avoiding something because it's harmful.

Different ways to say "to avoid"
We can use "to avoid" for general advice on 
avoiding substances, activities or conditions 
that can be harmful to our health.

We often use "to keep away from" with physical 
things that can cause us harm.

We use the phrase "to steer clear of" to give 
a stronger warning or to emphasise the importance 
of avoiding something.

He tries to avoid going out in the cold.
I need to keep away from cats because I'm allergic.
After surgery, you should steer clear of heavy lifting.

Her doctor says "steer clear of dairy products", 
which means he strongly advises her to avoid them.

Wash your hands to avoid picking up a bug.

We can use "to avoid" to advise against something 
that might be harmful to our health.

How could we tell someone to get some sleep?
get some rest
You're working too hard; you need to get some rest.

We can use "to get some rest" if someone 
is feeling tired or exhausted.
She needs to eat well to improve her health.

Drinking water can help with your headache.
This medicine will help you to get over your cold.

You should use sunscreen to avoid sunburn.
She needs to avoid eating too much sugar.

Here, "to avoid" means trying not to do something 
("eating too much sugar").

You should keep away from fast food.
I'm going to steer clear of alcohol.

We say "keep away from" and "steer clear of".

I'm going to keep away from loud noises because 
I have a headache.
Notice we use "keep away" with the preposition "from".

Steer clear of crowded places during flu season.

VOCABULARY
to get some rest
to eat well
to help
to keep away from
to steer clear of

5. Listening to advice from the doctor
Listen to some health advice

to breathe
Breathe in and out.
It's hard to breathe with this chest pain.

The verb form of "breath" is "to breathe" 
(with an "e" at the end).

blood pressure
Your blood pressure is very low.
This monitor can check how high my blood pressure is.

The force that your heart uses to pump blood 
is known as blood pressure.

heartbeat
Food that is low in salt can slow down your heartbeat.

He is giving advice on what to do if 
your heartbeat is fast because of stress.

Sugar is bad for high blood pressure.
I take medicine for my high blood pressure.

How fast is your...heartbeat?
How high is your...blood pressure?

We say "to breathe in" (to inhale) and 
"to breathe out" (to exhale).

It hurts my chest every time I breathe in.
Try to breathe in and out slowly.

It's hard to breathe with this chest pain.

Tannoy:
Juan Mendieta, Dr. Shah will see you now. 
Please go to consultation room 8.

Dr. Shah:
Come in. Hello, take a seat. 
How can I help you today?

Juan:
Hi, doctor. For the last two days, 
I've felt a sharp pain in my chest and I feel dizzy.

Dr. Shah:
Let me listen to your heartbeat. 
Breathe in... and out. 
Your heartbeat is a bit fast. 
Let me check your blood pressure. 
Your blood pressure is high, 135 over 85. 
Are you taking any medication?

Juan:
No. Nothing.

Dr. Shah:
I'm going to give you a prescription 
to control your blood pressure. 
Today, you should get some rest. 
Do you need me to write a sick note for you?

Juan:
No, I can just take the day off from work.

Dr. Shah:
I recommend that you drink more water and 
eat more fruit and vegetables. 
Avoid any food that is high in salt. 
Do you smoke or drink alcohol?

Juan:
I don’t smoke, but I drink at least twice a week.

Dr. Shah:
For now, try to keep away from alcohol 
until you recover. Are you active?

Juan:
I don't do any exercise. 
I’m usually too tired after work.

Dr. Shah:
Why don’t you try doing something in the morning, 
like walking?

Juan:
I could do that! Thanks doctor.

He said that he felt "dizzy" and "a sharp pain" in his chest.

VOCABULARY
to breathe
blood pressure
heartbeat

6. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

She says "I have such a sore throat", 
which means her throat is painful.

I have a sore back.
I have a really bad headache.

he phrase that means: 
"I have a higher temperature than normal."
I have a temperature.

We use "to have a temperature" when someone's 
temperature is higher than average.

I'm suffering from a cold at the moment.

I'm suffering from a cold.
I have a cold.

Here, we say "suffering from" and "have a cold".

I've had a cold for two weeks.

My mother told me to steer clear of smoking.

We use "to pick up a bug" to describe getting sick 
with a common and usually short-term illness.

I always feel sick on long car journeys.







































































































