Chapter 24: The future
1. Making weekend plans
Discuss weekend plans with friends

to plan to do something
I was planning to visit my friends in Liverpool.

She is planning to see her uncle on Saturday, 
so she isn't free.
I'm planning to go out on Saturday.

We change "plan" in this phrase (e.g. "planning") 
and follow it with "to" + base verb.

I'm so tired. This weekend, I plan to spend time 
with my wife and just do nothing!

He uses the phrase "to spend time" to say 
he wants to be in her company.

I will spend some time with my family on Sunday.

The phrase "to spend time with someone" 
means to enjoy the company of someone else.

Here's a tip!
We use the phrase "to spend time with someone" 
to mean that we want to be in the company of 
a person.

If you want to let someone know that you want 
to spend time with them, you can also use 
"to spend time together".

I often spend time with my friends.
It will be nice to spend some time together!

to have a barbecue
We're going to have a barbecue if the weather is nice.

to spend some time with family and have a barbecue on Saturday

We're going to have a barbecue 
if the weather is nice.

The word "barbecue" is also spelled as "barbeque" 
(with a "q"), which is shortened to "BBQ".

to go away for the weekend
Are you going away for the weekend?

Let's go away for the weekend.
Let's spend some time at home this weekend.

to go to a party
He's going to a party on Saturday.

We can go to the party together.

Ben is packing his backpack, he is going away for the weekend.
Ben is buying some drinks, he is going to a party.

to plan to do something
to have a barbecue
to go away for the weekend
to go to a party

2. Using "will" for future plans
Learn how to use "will" for decisions and promises

This weekend, I will go out with my friends.
She uses "will" and a base verb to talk about something 
she will do at the weekend.

Here's a tip!
We use the word "will" with the base form of a verb
to talk about the future, specifically:
1️⃣ to make (spontaneous) decisions
2️⃣ to make a promise
3️⃣ to predict something

decisions
Don't worry, I will help you with the cleaning.

promises
I'm busy now, I will call you later.

predictions
I think she will get the job.

I think they'll be on time. making a promise
It's cold! I'll take my jacket. making a spontaneous decision

We can express predictions with "I think". 
We use "will" for decisions we make in the moment.

Liam says "I think" when talking about a future action, 
suggesting a prediction.

Oh, this restaurant is closed. 
Hmm, I know! I'll call the other one 
and see if they're open!

This is a spontaneous decision 
in the moment to call another restaurant.

She had to act fast to find another restaurant. 
She used "I'll" to make a spontaneous decision.

I'll call you later.

We use "will" to show we promise or intend 
to do something in the future.

The future with "will"
The first structure for forming the future tense 
is "will" + verb. Both "will" and the verb 
in the sentence do not change; 
the verb is always in its base form.

However, we often shorten "will" to "'ll" 
and attach it to the end of personal pronouns 
like "I, you, he, she, it, we and they".

We don't know what we're doing later
 but I'll text you.
I think she'll love the present.
They'll meet up on Tuesday.

I think I'll have the steak and kidney pie.
I'll give you a call when I'm on the way.

I think she'll love the present.
She'll buy tickets for the concert next time.
Next month you'll travel a lot.
I think we'll eat lots of local food at the market.
You don't need to worry about dinner, \
I'll|will cook tonight.

Hmm, yeah I know James. 
He won't like mud wrestling.
He used "won't", which contains "not" (a negative).

Here's a tip!
For negatives, it's "will" + "not" + verb.
We often shorten "will" + "not" to "won't".

will + not: "She will not take the job offer."
won't: "She won't need a lift to the party."

I won't see you until next week. 
Have a good weekend!
She won't|will not get home until 8 pm tonight.

The structure for forming a question 
with "will" is will + (person/subject) + verb.

If we use a question word, 
it goes to the beginning of the sentence.

Question: Will Martha come with us to the party?
With question word: 
When will you come with me to a festival?

Will Ava visit us soon?
Will you marry me?
Will you cook for us ?
Will robots take over the world?
When will you arrive at the airport?
When will we see uncle Johnny?
How will you return home from the party?
Lou is very smart, I think she'll|will get the job.

VOCABULARY
This weekend, I will go out with my friends.

3. Sharing fun plans
Use present tenses to talk about future plans

Aisha:
Friday, at last! 
Do you have any plans for the weekend?

Peter:
Quiet weekend, really. You?

Aisha:
I have tickets for a comedy show this weekend. 
What about you two?

Fred:
Well, my fiancée is planning to host a house party 
for 40 people. I'm making shawarma.

Linda:
Oh, sounds delicious. 
Rob and I are going away to Marrakesh this weekend.

Aisha:
That sounds lovely! Where are you staying? 
Linda: We booked a lovely boutique hotel. 
Hopefully, there are no problems when we check in.

Peter:
I'm sure it'll be fine. When do you leave?

Linda:
We fly out at around 7pm and arrive 
at 10pm if our flight isn't delayed!

The word "weekend" is one word that refers 
to Saturday and Sunday in English-speaking countries.

They use "planning" and "going away", 
but are referring to the future (this weekend).

Here's a tip!
Though "will" is recognised as the "future" modal 
verb, in everyday conversations we tend to use 
the present continuous to talk about 
upcoming plans and arrangements (e.g. this weekend).

This weekend I am staying with my brother.
We are having a picnic on Saturday.
I heard you are visiting Amsterdam next week.
Rob and I are going away to Barcelona this weekend.

Where are you staying?
That sounds lovely, where are you staying?
Aisha uses "to be" + "staying" to ask 
about a plan that has already been organised.

Here's a tip!
We can use the present simple for schedules 
and fixed actions like timetables, rotas 
and hotel check-ins.

The train leaves at 7:30pm.
We check in at 6 pm.

We fly out at around 7pm.
Linda uses the present simple to talk 
about a scheduled (future) flight.

4. Making plans for the future
Learn when to use "be going to" for future plans

He's going to a party on Saturday.
We're going to have a party on the beach 
at the weekend.

He uses "going to" to suggest that 
he has made a plan to do something.

Here's a tip!
We use "be" + "going to" to express planned 
or more certain actions in a similar way 
in which the present continuous is used 
for the future.

However, we use "be" + "going to" 
if the following verb is also "be".

to talk about plans and intentions
I am going to study 10 minutes a day.

when we can see that something is certain to happen
Look at the clouds. It's going to rain heavily.

when the main verb is "to be"
My mum is going to be surprised when she sees us.

I'm sorry. I'll be on time in the future. a promise
Be careful! The food is going to burn. a certain event
If we are more certain about a future action, 
we can use "to be" + "going to".

Harry is going to write another book about his family.
We use "going to" for a certain plan.

I'm going to go to the gym in the morning.
I like this shirt a lot. I'll buy it!

We use "will" (e.g. "I'll buy") to express 
a spontaneous decision that wasn't planned.

We're going to get your doll back!
This is an intention about a future action.
In spoken English, "going to" can sound like "gonna".
Mez is going to plan our brunch party.
I'm going to run to work today.
Matilde is going to visit us when she travels to Italy.

Vanessa's going to be mad when she sees this!

Lou is very smart, I think she'll get the job.
We believe or think it'll happen.

It's so late! We're going to miss the plane.
We predict this will happen based 
on current evidence.

I'm going to (go to) a concert.
Rick says he's going to ask for her number next time.

Here's a tip!
To form negative sentences with "going to" 
we add "not" after the verb "to be", 
like this: to be + "not" + "going to" + verb.

We can shorten the word "not" in a couple of 
different ways.

They're not going to have dinner with us.
They aren't going to have dinner with us.

He is too lazy! He's not going to cycle home.
He is too lazy! He isn't going to cycle home.

He isn't going to stay here for long.
We're not going to meet this evening.
We're not going to go to a grammar rodeo!
We're not going to meet this evening.
This isn't going to be easy.

So, you aren't|you're not|you are not going to study pharmacy.

Questions with "be+ going to"
To form questions with "going to", 
we use this structure: 
to be + person/subject + "going to" + verb.

If we use a question word, 
it goes at the beginning: 
question word + to be + person/subject + "going to" + verb.

Is she going to have dinner with us?
Where is she going to move to?

Is Jada going to leave Will after what happened?
Are they going to sing Happy Birthday?
Are you going to|you gonna be in the movie?

Who is he going to work with now?
What are you going to watch tonight?
When am I going to see you again?

VOCABULARY
He's going to a party on Saturday.

5. Reading about retirement plans
Read about retirement life

to retire
We're going to retire next year.
I hope to retire when I turn 65.
She plans to stop working 
when she is sixty-five years old.

In many countries, the retirement age is 
typically between sixty-five and sixty-seven years old.

I will have more free time when I retire.
"to retire" means "to stop working
at a certain age or after a long period of employment".

I'm going to retire at the end of the month, 
then I'm moving back home to Pakistan and 
buying a farm.
There isn't anything else for me to do here 
in Bradford once I leave my job.
I know I'll miss my two daughters, 
but they're grown up now and living their own lives.
 I hope they'll visit me often.

I'm...moving back home.
I'll...miss my two daughters.

My husband and I have decided to go on a cruise 
to celebrate his retirement.

He is retiring next month due to his health. 
We are going to travel around the world. 
Then, we plan to live by the sea.

We are going to travel around the world.
He is retiring next month due to his health.

We plan to live by the sea.
This sentence uses a verb ("plan") + an infinitive 
("to live") to express a future plan.

I will take care of my parents when they retire. 
The problem is that my dad loves his job too much, 
so he won't retire until he's seventy years old!

My mum really wants to stop working. 
She's going to take it easy when she retires.

They agree on one thing. 
They want to retire in Spain for the warmer weather.

He won't retire until he's seventy years old.

6. Verb patterns with the infinitive
Learn verbs that are followed by "to" + verb

We like to go on holiday in the summer.
I plan to go by plane.
This sentence contains two verbs.

Here's a tip!
Verb patterns involve two verbs: 
a stative verb that refers to a state of mind, 
and an action verb.

Some stative verbs are only followed 
by "to" + verb (i.e. the infinitive).

Stative verbs
to want to do something
to like to do something
to decide to do something
to hope to do something
to plan to do something
to try to do something

Examples
I want to learn how to paint.
Would they like to go out tonight?
Did you decide to stay at home?
We hope to be on time.
We planned to go for dinner tonight.
We'll try to be on time.

Who wants to go camping this summer?
I want to have lunch.
I hope to arrive early to the dinner party.
My mum decided to make baklava for dessert.

The first verb is a stative verb ("decide") 
and the second verb is an action ("to make").

Everyone wants to be rich at some point.
I hope to see you soon.
When do you want to go for lunch?
I want to go and see that new film at the cinema.
We decided to stay in last night.
They've decided to move out of London.

We planned to go travelling this summer.
Did you try to talk to her?
I'll try to get to yours on time.

VOCABULARY
We like to go on holiday in the summer.

7. Developing fluency
Share your plans for the weekend

I'm planning to have a party 
for my mum when she retires.

I'm going to spend time with my family at home.
After the phrase "to spend time with someone",
 we can specify where (e.g. at home).

I think I'll go out on Saturday but I won't go to a party.
We're having a barbecue this weekend.

I plan to visit my grandparents on Saturday.
I'll try to do all my chores on Saturday.

We decided to go away to Las Vegas this weekend.
We can use "to go away" to mean that we are taking a trip.

Tomorrow, we're going to have a barbecue 
at our holiday villa.












































































































































