Chapter 13: Housework
1. Describing household chores
Talk about housework

to do the housework
It's your turn to do the housework!

We have a lot of housework to do.
"housework" refers to chores and errands, and 
"homework" are learning tasks you do after class.

to do the laundry
Have you done the laundry?
"laundry" refers specifically to clothes and fabrics 
you wash (e.g. in a washing machine).

When we do laundry, we can also say that 
we are "doing the washing" or that we "put a wash on". 
In the US you may hear people say that 
they "put a load in". All of them mean the same thing!

to do the laundry/to do the washing
You need to do this if your clothes are dirty.

I put a wash on.
I need to do the laundry.

to make the bed
I've already made the beds.

What should you do if your bed is untidy?
make the bed
I need to make the bed.

to do the washing up
I've done most of the washing up.

What needs to be done when the sink is full of dirty dishes?
the washing up
We can say "to wash the dishes" or "
to do the washing up" to refer to washing dirty dishes.

to vacuum
Did he vacuum under the bed?

We need to vacuum the whole flat.
We spell "vacuum" with a double "u".

to sweep
I sweep the floor once a week.

to mop
Would you please mop the kitchen floor?

I am going to sweep and mop the floor.
She is going to clean the floor.

You may hear some different words when it comes to 
cleaning the floor. If you hear "to sweep", 
that means cleaning the floor with a broom. 
If you hear "to mop", 
it means cleaning the floor with a wet soapy mop.

washing clothes
"laundry" refers specifically to clothes and 
fabrics you wash (e.g. in a washing machine).

Peter has to make his bed and take out the rubbish.

2. Taking it in turns
Talk about sharing chores

to take turns
We can take turns to clean the kitchen.
My parents made us take turns doing the house chores.

to buy the groceries
I'm going to the supermarket to buy the groceries.
I'll buy the groceries this afternoon.

to take out the rubbish
You still haven't taken out the rubbish!

I mopped the floor and took out the rubbish.
"rubbish" refers to something you throw away, e.g. food waste.

In the US, we are more likely to hear the word "trash" 
instead of "rubbish". We may also say "to take out the 
recycling" if we are talking about separated rubbish.

🇬🇧 I took out the rubbish last night.
🇺🇸 Can you take out the trash?

words that refer to things you can dispose of ("take out")
rubbish, trash, recycling

Jessica: Ladies, I mopped the floor, took out the rubbish and did the washing every week this month. It's too much! 😩

Hailey: @Amelia It's your turn to do the housework!

Amelia: Shall we take it in turns to do the chores? 
We should share the housework.

Hailey: Great idea! This week, I can take out the 
trash and do the laundry. 
@Jessica Could you vacuum when you get back?

Jessica: Yeah sure. 🙂

Amelia: Thanks @Jessica 👍 I'll buy the groceries this afternoon.

It's your turn to do the housework!
We usually use "do" with "the housework".

Shall we take it in turns to do the chores? 
We should share the housework.
Taking turns is one way to share housework.
This week, I can take out the trash and do the laundry.

3. Learning about daily life in the past
Watch a video of a family who try to live in the past

Watch a video about a family living in the past. 
How is their life different?

Pause

Narrator:
What was it really like to live in the past? 
No phones, no Netflix, no washing machines. These 
people are going to live in the past for a TV show.

Reporter:
What d’you think you’re gonna miss the most?

Child:
TV.

Reporter:
TV. Are you a big TV fan?

Narrator:
Their first morning living in the past, 
and it’s Deborah Griffiths’ birthday as well.

Richie:
Hello Mrs Griffiths. Happy birthday.

Deborah:
Ah, thank you, darling.

Narrator:
There is no electricity or gas. Only a fire in the kitchen. 
It’s used for cooking and heating.

Deborah:
It’s a really nice fire there now.

Narrator:
The fire also heats water for washing. 
There is no bathroom in the house. 
They wash in the kitchen. 
Back at home it’s time for shopping – 
here, the shop comes to them.

Grocer:
Sweets are two pence a bag or 
if you want a nice bar of chocolate, five pennies.

Narrator:
For eggs they keep chickens. 
The chickens are fun to play with, 
but they are not really pets. 
It’s time to prepare for Deborah’s birthday. 
It is not easy to buy presents, cards or cakes, 
so they have to make them.

People in the past needed to be good at making things themselves. 
With no electricity they have only candles to light up the night. 
And with no phones or computers, they make their own music.

Deborah:
Brilliant. Absolutely brilliant!

Narrator:
Living in the past is not always easy. 
But the families learn that sometimes, 
life without technology can bring people closer together.

a washing machine
We do the laundry using a washing machine.
Our washing machine broke, so we have to wash 
our clothes by hand.

electricity
We need electricity to light and heat our house.

Houses in the past used fire for light and heat. 
Today, more homes use electricity.

A food seller would come to the house to sell groceries.

In the past, they bought groceries from a man who came to the house.
We refer to food shopping as buying groceries.
Buying ready-made things was difficult, 
so most people made their own.

Doing the housework was harder in the past.

4. The present perfect
Form the present perfect tense

I have washed the dishes.
I have washed the dishes and tidied the kitchen.

This sentence describes an action that occurred in the past.

I tidied my room yesterday.
Yesterday is a finished time in the past, 
so we just say "I tidied my room" (without "have").

We use the present perfect tense to talk about 
completed actions in the past, which still have some 
kind of impact on the present.

The present perfect structure is to have + past participle.

Sentence in the present perfect
I have washed the dishes.
He has cooked dinner for me.

Meaning
The dishes are clean now.
Dinner is ready now.

We have vacuumed the floor.
We form the present perfect using "have" or "has" 
+ past participle.

We have tidied our rooms.
He has already cleaned the kitchen.

We use "has cleaned" to say that the kitchen 
is clean now because of a recent past action.

already
He has already cleaned the kitchen.

They've done the dishes already.
We add "already" (after the verb or at the end) 
to emphasise that this is a completed action.

just
Mum has just cooked dinner.

I've just finished making dinner.
James did the chores very recently.
We use "just" with the present perfect 
if an action happened very recently.

I've just finished the housework.

We can contract the pronoun with "have" / "has" 
in present perfect sentences.

pronoun + "have"
I've mopped the floor.
You've vacuumed.

pronoun + "has"
He's cleaned his bedroom.
She's washed the dishes.

They've just mopped the floor, so it's wet.

To form a negative sentence in the present perfect,
 we add the word "not" after the verb "to have" 
 to make "have not" or "haven't".

Positive sentence: You have bought the groceries for dinner.

Negative sentence: You haven't bought groceries for dinner.

Daniel has not cooked anything for dinner.
There is no dinner because Daniel has not made any food.

Lucy hasn't had lunch yet.
We say "hasn't" or "has not" + past participle 
to create a negative sentence.

I have not tidied my room yet.
I haven't cooked dinner this week.

We start present perfect questions with "have" 
or a question word + "have".

Question: Have you bought the groceries for dinner?
Question: Where have you been? I was looking for you.

Has anyone fed the cat?
Has James gone out?
Has he made dinner for you?
What have you done today?

I've... just mopped the floor.
You... haven't cleaned the kitchen.
Has... she already washed the dishes?

She has not|hasn't cleaned her room yet.
Where have they gone this afternoon?

5. Developing fluency
Describe your chores, using the present perfect

I've washed the dishes and put them away.
I have bought the groceries.
We have bought some groceries.
Have you washed the clothes yet?
I've washed the dishes today.

I have made... dinner.
I have done... the laundry.

I haven't made dinner yet.
I haven't tidied my room for a week.
Have you put away the dishes?
I've put away the clean dishes.

Have you taken out the recycling?
I have taken out the rubbish.
























































































































































































