Chapter 10: Actions in progress

1. The past continuous
Form the past continuous

I was studying all day.
I was talking to you.

We use the past continuous tense to talk about actions 
that were in progress (happening over time) in the past.

He was using that computer yesterday.
I was talking to you.
She was revising for her exams.
We were studying together yesterday.

The action "studying" is continuous to show it was in progress.

He was revising for an exam.

We form the past continuous with two parts: 
the past simple form of the verb "to be" 
("was" / "were"), followed by the -ing form of the main verb.

was + -ing
I was working on Sunday.
He was living in France.
It was getting warmer every day.

were + -ing
You were using the phone.
They were cooking dinner.
We were having a meeting.

You were working last Saturday.
We use "were" with the pronouns "you", "we" and "they".

She was revising all morning.

To form negative sentences in the past continuous 
tense, we insert the word "not" between was/were and 
the -ing verb. We can also use shortened forms in the 
past continuous.

I was not talking to you. = I wasn't talking to you.
They were not living together. = They weren't living together.

We were not laughing at you, Mr Flemming!
The word "not" indicates that the action did not occur at all.

We weren't living together until two months ago.
They were not talking about you.
She wasn't studying at home.

To form questions in the past continuous tense, 
all we have to do is swap "was / were" with the 
person / thing doing the action. 
We can also add a wh-question word to the beginning 
to ask different kinds of questions.

Were they living together?
Where was Eva studying last night?
Who was using the bathroom for ages last night?
Were you working from home on Tuesday?

This is a question in the past continuous 
that requires you to just answer "yes" or "no".

Were you working from home on Tuesday?
To make a question, we put "was" / "were" before the pronoun ("you").

Were you wearing the wrong dress to the wedding?
Where was he living before he moved to the US?
Where was Eva studying last night?

We can use "where" to ask an open question about a place.
Gary wasn't taking|was not taking any medicine for his back pain.
Were we doing the wrong thing all this time?

Were you sleeping? I'm sorry I woke you up!
What were you doing this time last year?
Who was driving this car yesterday?
With "who", we don't need a pronoun because it is unknown.

We were not|weren't having coffee in the bar.

2. More time linkers
Use time linkers to connect events

while
Mike and Emma got married while they were in Italy.

I listen to music while I clean.
Here, "while" indicates that two continuous actions 
are happening at the same time.

as
As he was driving, he saw a rainbow.
As I was walking home, I saw my old friend Ruby.
The connecting word "as" is similar in meaning to "while".

We can use "when", "while", or "as" when we want to 
say that two or more things happen at the same time.

while (for a continuous action)
While I was walking my dog, it started to rain.

as (for a specific moment or continuous action)
As I opened the door, the cat ran out.
As he was reading, he fell asleep.

when (for a specific moment)
When she entered the room, the phone rang.

as soon as
As soon as he finished school, he started a job.

As soon as it started to rain, we went inside.
We use "as soon as" when something happens immediately 
after another event, without any delay.

I ran home as soon as the lesson ended.

finally
Finally, after 10 years of marriage they got divorced.
After four years of studying, I finally graduated from university.

"finally" and "in the end" are both used to indicate 
the conclusion of an event or series of events.

We finally got home at midnight.
We can also use "finally" at the start of the sentence.

I got sick... while I was on holiday.
As soon... as he got to London, he called us.
Finally,... we got divorced.

As I was revising for the test, 
I finally understood the meaning of "routine".
As he was driving, he saw a rainbow.
We finally bought a house after ten years of renting.
While I was walking my dog, it started to rain.

He scored a goal immediately after the game started.
As soon as the game started, he scored a goal!
"as soon as" indicates that scoring a goal happened 
immediately after the game started.

As soon as you finish dinner, you can have dessert.
"as soon as" indicates that he can have dessert 
immediately after dinner.

I was listening to a podcast while I was studying.
As|While|When she was shopping, she found a sale.

3. Combining past tenses
Use the past simple and past continuous together

Julia:
Girl, you would not believe what I just did in my online class.

Farah:
What did you do?

Julia:
OK, So while my teacher was talking, my phone rang. 
It was my cousin. 
So, we were chatting and I said, 
"I really don't like this class!" 
Suddenly, I heard my teacher go, 
"Julia, Julia... we can hear you."

Farah:
Oh my!

Julia:
Yeah... my microphone was still on 
so he was listening when I said I hated his class.

Farah:
Wait, but your camera was off, right?

Julia:
Well, no. My camera was also on!

Farah:
JULIA! Why didn't you check you were on mute?

Julia:
Girl, I don't know!

The teacher was talking during Julia's online class. 
Then Julia's phone began to ring.
Her camera and microphone were both on.

We use the "past continuous" (was / were + -ing verb) 
to describe an action that was in progress, 
then we use the "past simple" to introduce another 
action that started or interrupted the first action.

This is common when telling a story or recounting a past event.

He was listening when I said I hated his class.
So while my teacher was talking, my phone rang.
We were chatting and I said, "I really don't like this class!"

I was having lunch... an action in progress
...when my mum called me. an action that interrupted another

One action started ("mum called me") while another 
one was in progress ("I was having lunch").

OK, so while my teacher was talking, my phone rang.

Julia's teacher was talking (in progress) 
when Julia's phone started to ring.

We were talking when my teacher said, "We can hear you, Julia."
We use "was" / "were" + the "-ing" verb form to show 
an action was in progress before another action happened.

To demonstrate the sequence of events, we can use time linkers like "when", "while" and "as".

In informal English, you might also hear people 
connecting both sentences with "and". 
Take a look at the examples below.

I was waiting for the bus when I saw a car accident.

While you were sleeping, we bought you a gift!

As she was walking, it started to rain.

We were cooking and I cut my finger.

He was listening when I said I hated his class.
I went to sleep while you were watching a film.

I took a photo as my children were playing in the park.
I was working as a taxi driver when I met your mother.
I was living in England when I got married.

4. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

I was doing my homework.
We use the past continuous ("was doing") to express 
a past action in progress.

I was sending an email when the meeting started.

She uses "while" to show that both actions happened simultaneously.

I was watching TV while I was waiting for the lesson to begin.

I was revising while my classmates were finishing the exercise.

We were walking the dog as we talked.

I was driving home before I started today’s lesson.
Before I started this lesson, I was doing 
another lesson in Japanese.

I was living in England when I got married.
We were studying together yesterday.

Gary wasn't taking|was not taking any medicine for his back pain.
Where was he living before he moved to the US?
What were you doing this time last year?
We were not|weren't having coffee in the bar.

Before I started this lesson, 
I was doing another lesson in Japanese.

He scored a goal immediately after the game started."
As soon as the game started, he scored a goal!
As|While|When she was shopping, she found a sale.

As soon as you finish dinner, you can have dessert.
As I was revising for the test, 
I finally understood the meaning of "routine".













































































































































































































