Chapter 8: Comparisons

1. Making comparisons
Make comparisons with "more", "fewer", "less"

I drink more coffee than tea.
I read more books than my husband.

less
I have less free time this weekend than next weekend.

I have less free time on Saturdays than I do on Sundays.

Listen carefully! He says he has "less free time" 
and not "more free time".

She says she drinks more coffee than tea, so she prefers it. 
We use "more... than..." to make a comparison.

Good news!

You probably recognise the structure more ... than .... 
We use it for these kinds of comparisons too. 
Have a look at the examples below.

There are more women than men in my company.
I watch more TV series than films.
I drink more coffee than tea.

I eat more fish than meat.
We can use "more" with both countable and 
uncountable nouns. Here, "fish" is uncountable.

We use "less" in front of uncountable nouns, 
such as "money". It's the opposite of "more".

fewer
He has fewer hats than his brother.
I have fewer dogs than cats.
We use "fewer" here and not "less" because "dogs" is a countable noun.

Remember that we use "less" with nouns that we can't count, 
"fewer" with nouns that we can count, and "more" with both!

less water, less money, less coffee


fewer people, fewer bars, fewer clothes

fewer restaurants
less money
"Fewer" is used with countable nouns ("restaurants"), 
and "less" with uncountable nouns ("money").

He has fewer friends than you.

Even some native speakers get mixed up between "less" 
and "fewer". Watch out for common mistakes like this:

❌ There are less men than women in my company.

✅ There are fewer men than women in my company.

I earn less money than my wife.
Because "money" is an uncountable noun, we use "less...than".

There are fewer women than men in my class.
I work fewer hours than you do.
We use "fewer" in this sentence because "hours" is a countable noun.

She has more aunts than uncles.
She reads fewer books than her boyfriend.

I eat less meat than fish.
Since "meat" is uncountable, we use "less...than" in this sentence.

I have fewer exams this year than last year.
She has more books than I do.

2. Comparing people
Read about different people

Amina's aunt and uncle
(1) My aunt is really good at painting but I'm no good at all.
(2) My job is to clean when she finishes because she's not very organised.
(3) My uncle is not very creative but he's really organised.

Amina's aunt is more creative than Amina.
Amina's aunt is "more creative than" her because 
she's good at painting and Amina is not.

Amina is "organised" and her aunt is not.

Amina used the phrase "really organised" to describe her uncle.
Amina's uncle is less creative than her aunt.

Luka's cousins
(1) My older cousin and I always offer to help in the kitchen, 
but my younger cousins just want to watch TV.

(2) I like my room to be organised but all my cousins 
are not organised at all.

(3) I have three cousins but my friend Amina has six.

Luka's older cousin is "more helpful than" his younger cousins.

3. Superlatives
Describe people using superlatives

My colleague Mia is the laziest person in the office.
The superlative form of "lazy" is "the laziest".

We use the comparative form to compare two nouns. 
When we are comparing something to a larger group, 
we use the superlative form.

Comparative
My brother is funnier than my sister.
She's nicer than him.

Superlative
My brother is the funniest person in my family.
She's the nicest person in the office.

He's the rudest person in the office.

There are two different ways of forming the superlative, 
and the structure we use depends on the adjective.

Generally, with short adjectives we use "the" + adjective + "-est" ending.

We use "the most" + adjective with long adjectives.

Short: He's the rudest person I know.
Long: My sister is the most confident person I know.

My brother is the most fun person in my family.
The superlative of "fun" is "the most fun", 
but the superlative of "funny" is "the funniest".

"Fun" and "funny" are two adjectives that are easily 
confused but don't mean the same thing! 
Here is a reminder of their superlative forms:

Our trip to the Eiffel Tower was the most fun part of the holiday.
Tom is the funniest person in the office.

He's the kindest person in the office.

When we use superlatives in English, we generally say what 
we are comparing to. However, in more informal contexts, 
we often omit this part. Consider the examples below.

He's the best cook in the house. > He's the best.
We're the laziest in our friendship group. > We're the laziest.
Cleaning is the worst task in the world. > Cleaning's the worst.

Theo does say "Pierre is the best cook", 
but he says Katya is "the funniest".

I am the funniest person in my house.
You're the most confident person in our group of friends.

There are three words that do not behave in the same way 
as most other adjectives.

good > better > best
bad > worse > worst
far > further / farther > furthest / farthest

4. Developing fluency
Compare people

My classmates
(1) Fatima is the most friendly and the most fun person in my class.
(2) Mateo is the most funny student, he tells great jokes.
(3) Davide is more polite than the other students, 
he's always helpful and says thank you.

He is more organised than his younger brother.
My cat is the laziest pet I have.
Tom is the rudest child on our street.
My son is more creative than my daughter.

My children
I have a son called Francis and a daughter called Sarah.

(1) Francis is the most organised child, he is very tidy.

(2) Sarah is the laziest child, she loves to sleep.

(3) Sarah is the rudest child, she never says please.

(4) Sarah is more creative than Francis, she's very good at art.



























































































































































































































































