Chapter 23: Transport
1. Talking about transport
Talk about modes of transport

to drive a car
When did you learn to drive a car?

I learned to drive a car this year.
We can say "I learned to drive a car" 
or just "I learned to drive".

to ride a bike
Who taught you to ride a bike?

My dad taught me how to ride a bike.
The long form of "to ride a bike" is "to ride a bicycle".

"to ride a bike" or "to cycle"?

The phrases "to ride a bike" and "to cycle" both have the same meaning.

It can be more common to use "to ride a bike" 
when talking about learning for the first time. 
We often use "to cycle" when talking about our routines.

I learned to ride a bike when I was five years old.
I cycle to work every day.

She says "I cycled to work", which means she used her bike.

to fly
We flew to Spain last year.
When are you flying to Hong Kong?

They're excited to fly for the first time.
Here, "to fly" means to fly in a plane.

I flew to New York for the conference.
The past simple of "to fly" is "flew".

to catch a bus
I catch a bus to school every day.
I need to leave by 8am to catch the bus on time.

The phrase "to catch a bus" means to get 
on board a bus in time before it departs.

"to take" or "to catch"?
The verbs "to take" and "to catch" are both used 
with types of transport (like a "bus", a "train" or a "plane"), 
but they can have slightly different uses.

"to take" is often used for routine, 
a past trip or future plans

I usually take the bus to work.


"to catch" is often used when timing is important
I need to catch the train at 8am or I'll be late.

I usually take the bus to work. - a routine

I need to catch the train at 8am or I'll be late.
the timing is important

to take the train
I'm going to take the train to work today.

Did you take the train today?
We can also use the verb "to take" with types of transport 
other than the train (like "the bus").

a pedestrian
The park has a special path for pedestrians.

My city has many areas for pedestrians.
A "pedestrian" is a person walking along 
the street and not travelling in a vehicle

Be careful; there's a pedestrian crossing the road.

The prefix "ped-" in "pedestrian" means relating 
to the feet (a "pedestrian" travels by foot).

Can you drive a car?
We can also say "to drive" when talking 
about other transport (like a "bus").

I want to learn to drive a car.
She's teaching her son to ride a bike.

I ride a bike to work
I cycle to work.

It takes 2 hours to fly from London to Prague.

I'm going to catch the bus to work at 7am.

I like to sit by the window when I fly.
You need to leave now if you want to catch the bus.
I'm going to take the train to visit my family.
This area is safe for pedestrians; there's very little traffic.

Watch out for that pedestrian.

to drive a car
to ride a bike
to fly
to catch a bus
to take the train
a pedestrian

2. Taking public transport
Discover useful words to talk about public transport

the platform
She waits for her train on the platform every morning.

Platform 1 was crowded with people waiting for the train.
A "platform" at a train or bus station 
will usually have a number.

the gate
The gate number will be announced soon.

The plane leaves from gate D9.
A "gate" at an airport will usually have a letter, 
followed by a number.

a platform
The place where a train will arrive or leave from.

a gate
The area in an airport where passengers wait to board their flight.

At a train station, we wait on a "platform". 
At an airport, we wait at a "gate".

to depart
Her flight will depart in 30 minutes.
the word that means "to leave a place".

We can find out what time a train or plane departs 
by listening for an announcement.

to arrive
The plane from Amsterdam will arrive at 11am.
the word that means "to reach a place".
We can listen for an announcement to find out 
what time a plane or train arrives.

to be expected at
The train to Cardiff is expected at 8pm.

The 2pm train to Bristol is now expected at 2.15pm.

We often hear "expected at" when a train or 
plane is going to arrive late.

the final call
This is the final call for passengers travelling to Berlin.

We heard the final call for our flight.
The "final call" is an announcement telling passengers to go to the gate immediately.

Passengers on flight A23 to Prague should go 
to the gate immediately.

VOCABULARY
the platform
the gate
to depart
to arrive
to be expected at
the final call

3. Reading about delays
Understand updates on transport delays

to be delayed
My train was delayed by 30 minutes.
His plane is delayed by an hour.
We can use "to be delayed" to talk about transport 
that arrives later than scheduled.

My train was delayed by an hour.
His train will arrive one hour later than scheduled.
His train is delayed, which means it will arrive 
later than scheduled.

to be cancelled
Is the direct train to Amsterdam cancelled?

My train was cancelled so I had to stay in a hotel overnight.
Here, we use the past form of "to cancel" ("cancelled").

His train has been cancelled, which means 
it is not going to arrive.

Asking for a "refund"
If your train or bus is delayed or cancelled, 
you might be able to get a "refund". 
You might get back the full or partial cost of your ticket. 
Here are a few ways you could politely ask for a "refund".

Am I able to get a refund?
I'd like to request a refund.

He is asking for money back for the train ticket he bought.
He is asking for a "refund", which means money 
back for the train ticket he bought.

We are sorry to announce...
We are sorry to announce that the 8am train to Bristol is delayed.

We are sorry to announce that this train is cancelled.
"We are sorry to announce..." is a way to start 
an apology for a delay or cancellation.

We are sorry for any inconvenience.
Flight B23 is delayed. We are sorry for any inconvenience.

The 7am bus to Glasgow is delayed. 
We are sorry for any inconvenience.

"We are sorry for any inconvenience." is a formal 
way to apologise for causing trouble or discomfort

We are sorry to announce that...
We are sorry for any inconvenience.

a replacement bus service
My train is cancelled, but there's a replacement bus service.

A replacement bus service will run on Sunday.
A "replacement bus service" is usually a temporary 
substitute for a train or other public transport.

What is being offered instead of the train?
a replacement bus service
The train is cancelled, so the train company 
offers a "replacement bus service".

We are sorry to announce that the 10.45 train 
to Birmingham has been cancelled due to technical issues. 
We are arranging a replacement bus service 
for all affected passengers.

We are sorry to announce that the 10.45 train 
to Birmingham has been cancelled due to technical issues. 
We are arranging a replacement bus service for all affected passengers.

The train to Birmingham is cancelled, 
which means it won't arrive.

We are sorry to announce that the 10.45 train 
to Birmingham has been cancelled.

The 10:45 train to Birmingham has been cancelled 
due to technical issues.

British English uses a double "l" ("cancelled") 
and US English uses one "l" ("canceled").

a replacement bus service
Passengers travelling to Birmingham can take 
a "replacement bus service".

We are arranging a replacement bus service 
for all affected passengers.
The suffix "-ment" in "replacement" is 
a common way to form a noun.

We are sorry to announce that Flight BA24 
to Paris has been delayed due to poor weather conditions. 
We are sorry for any inconvenience this may cause.

The flight is delayed, which means it will not arrive on time.

The 10:45 train to Birmingham has been delayed 
due to technical issues.
Here, we need to use the past form of "to delay" ("delayed").

We are sorry for any inconvenience this may cause.

VOCABULARY
to be delayed
to be cancelled
We are sorry to announce...
We are sorry for any inconvenience.
a replacement bus service

4. Understanding announcements
Understand announcements in train stations and airports

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

We are sorry to announce that the 3pm train 
to London is delayed due to maintenance work.

The train is now expected at 3.30pm. 
This train was due to depart from platform 4, 
but will now leave from platform 3.

We are sorry to announce...
"We are sorry to announce..." is used to politely 
inform passengers about a change in plans.

The train to London will arrive on time.
The train to London is delayed due to maintenance work.

The train is delayed by 30 minutes.
Here, "delayed" means the train will arrive later than expected.

This is the final call for passengers booked 
on Flight 237 to Paris. 
Please go to gate 87 immediately.

We also wish to inform passengers waiting 
for Flight 122 from New York, 
there is a slight delay due to weather conditions. 
The flight is now expected to arrive at 6:30pm.

We are sorry for any inconvenience caused.

This is the last announcement made to passengers 
to board their plane.

They heard the final call and went to the gate immediately.
It's useful to be at the correct gate before the "final call".

Where should passengers travelling to Paris board their flight?
gate 87

5. Learning about transport in Europe
Watch a vlog about travelling in Europe

Natalie's vlog - Transport in Europe
Natalie:
Hello and welcome to this video which is all about transport. 
My name's Natalie and I live in London in the United Kingdom.

Usually I ride a bike around the city. 
Sometimes I take a bus or sometimes 
I use the famous London Underground.

Recently I went to Paris, Berlin, Prague and Budapest. 
I tried different ways of getting around in each city.

So, these cities are all pretty far away 
from each other but instead of taking flights 
between each one, I got an Interrail pass, 
a type of ticket for regional and 
international trains across Europe.

Natalie's vlog - Transport in Europe

Digital Learning Associates

Natalie:
Why take a train? Reason number one: 
it's a little bit cheaper and reason number two: 
it's much healthier for the environment to take trains.

The views from the train are incredible. You can 
see more of the country by travelling on the train.

When I arrived in Paris, I used their Metro system 
to get around the city. Their system was very 
similar to the London Underground.

Berlin has a similar system to the Metro and the 
Underground but my favourtue transport in Berlin 
was an electric scooter. My friends and I hired 
electric scooters via an app and it was so much fun.

Onto the third city, which was Prague. 
I bought a twenty-four hour tram pass. 
We have trams in London too but I never use them. 
I only use the underground or buses.

In Budapest, I chose to walk everywhere. 
Walking is my favourite way to see more of a city.

On the way back to London, I took a plane. 
Flying takes two hours but the train takes 
twenty-four hours. And those were all of the 
methods of transport I took during my trip to Europe.

I hope you enjoyed this video and you learned a 
little bit about how to travel in Europe.

Bye!

We can say: "she usually rides a bike" 
or "she usually cycles".

the Underground
I use the Underground every day to get to work.
The London Underground is also known as the Tube.

The "London Underground" is known as the "Tube" 
because it travels through small tunnels.
Natalie sometimes takes the bus around London.

Travelling in Europe by train 🚆
An "Interrail Pass" is a special type of train ticket. 
With this ticket, you can travel on trains 
in many European countries for a certain time.

An Interrail Pass is a great way to explore 
different places and see Europe by train.

Natalie bought an "Interrail Pass" to travel 
around Europe by train.

it's a little bit cheaper
Natalie thinks that taking the train is 
a little bit cheaper than flying.

Natalie thinks that taking the train is better 
for the environment.

Metro or underground? 🚇 🤔
The name for an underground or partially 
underground rail system can vary depending 
on the region or country. Here are some examples 
from around the world. ⤵️

🇫🇷 the Paris Metro
🇬🇧 the London Underground
🇺🇸 the New York City Subway
🇩🇪 the Berlin U-Bahn

an electric scooter
I always wear a helmet when I ride my electric scooter.

a tram
I like sitting by the window when I ride the tram.

an electric scooter
An electric vehicle for short-distance travel, 
with a handlebar and a platform.

a tram
A rail-based city transport on tracks, 
carrying passengers, with multiple stops.

An "electric scooter" and a "tram" are 
types of transport in many European cities.

VOCABULARY
the Underground
an electric scooter
a tram

6. Time expressions
Use time expressions in the past

ago
I went on holiday a couple of weeks ago.
I went to London two months ago.
I saw Claire three days ago.
We use "ago" to express that a certain amount of 
time has passed since an event happened.

We use "ago" after a time expression 
(like "three days") to say when an event happened.

for
He worked at the shop for three years.

I went on holiday for a week.
We can use "for" before a period of time (like a "week").

during
We went for a walk during the day.

I went to the beach every day during the summer holidays.
We can use "during" to indicate that something 
happened within a period of time.

"for" or "during"?
The prepositions "for" and "during" are both used 
to talk about time, but they are used in different contexts.

"for" is used with a duration 
(e.g. "minutes", "hours", "days", "months")
I went travelling for 5 months.


"during" is used with periods or events 
( e.g. "the morning", "a meeting", "a holiday")
She took notes during the meeting.

for - 5 minutes
during - the morning

since
It hasn't rained since last week.

We haven't spoken since last month.
We can use "since" to indicate 
the starting point of an action, event or state.

"for" or "since"?
We use "for" to speak about a period of time 
and "since" to refer to a point in time 
when the period started.

We often use "for" and "since" with the present 
perfect ("have lived"), but with different time expressions.

"for" is used with a quantity of time 
(e.g. "two hours", "one week")
I have lived here for one week.


"since" is used with a specific point in time 
(e.g. "Monday", "January 1st")
I have lived here since January 1st.

for - two hours
since - Monday

until
We were on holiday until the end of September.
We are travelling until Sunday.
We use "until" when something continues 
to a specific time (like "Sunday").

"until" or "till"?
We use "until" to say when something continues 
up to a specific time.
We can also use "till" instead of "until". 
They both have the same meaning, 
but "till" is more informal and only really 
used in spoken language.

The shops are open until 8pm on Thursdays.
I'm in London till Sunday.

I went travelling two years ago.
I went on a cruise three years ago.
I stayed in Ibiza for three weeks.
I went away for a couple of weeks.

They went hiking within a certain period of time.
I went for a swim every day during the summer.
She's been on a city bus tour since 9am.
I have been here since 8am.

I went travelling for two weeks.
I've been here since Tuesday.
The ticket office will remain open until 10pm.
My flight doesn't leave until 11pm.
I waited till 7pm, but he didn't come.

VOCABULARY
ago
for
during
since
until

7. Developing fluency
Say what you'd like to do on holiday

Lucy's dream holiday
Next year, I'd like to visit New Zealand with my boyfriend. 
We'd love to hire a car to explore 
both the North and South islands. 
I want to try the local cuisine,
 especially a traditional Māori hāngī. 
 I want to go hiking in Tongariro National Park, 
 but my boyfriend would prefer to go kayaking down 
 the Tongariro river.

Lucy says she'd like to visit New Zealand 
next year with her boyfriend.

They'd love to hire a car, which means 
"to pay to use a car for a short time".

They'd love to hire a car to travel around New Zealand.
Another way to say "to hire a car" is "to rent a car".
They want to explore the North and South islands.
"to explore" means "to search a place and discover things about it".
Would you like to explore New Zealand?

Lucy and her boyfriend want to try the local cuisine.

kayaking ကယပ်လှေစီးခြင်း။
local cuisine ဒေသအစားအစာ

Lucy would like to go hiking, 
but her boyfriend would prefer to go kayaking.

Phil's family holiday plans
My family and I are going to Thailand next month. 
I love the sea, so I'd like to go surfing 
and snorkelling. 
My sister would rather relax on the beach. 
My brother thinks that Thailand will be too hot. 
He said he'd rather go skiing, 
but there's no snow in Thailand!

After we go surfing and snorkelling, we'll eat Thai food.

Thailand has beautiful coral reefs for snorkelling.
British English = "snorkelling". American English = "snorkeling".

Phil's sister would rather relax on the beach than go surfing.
Phil's sister would rather relax on the beach than go surfing.
Here, "to relax" means "to rest while 
doing something that you enjoy".

Phil's brother thinks that Thailand is too hot 
and he would rather go skiing.

















































































