Chapter 11: At work
1. Describing your job
Talk about your career and work history

a company
I run my own company.

She only worked at the company for a year.
A "company" is a business organisation that sells goods or services.

She worked at the company for 2 years.

to be at a company
I was at my last company for 5 years.

He was at his last company for 2 years.

to get a job as
I got a job as a teaching assistant in the local school.
I got a job as a waiter.

We can use "to get a job as" to state that someone 
is employed in a particular role.

to work as
He worked as a waiter in a hotel.

She worked as a cleaner.
"to work as" indicates a person's profession, job role or job title.

Tom worked as a tour guide.
Here, "to work as" indicates Tom's previous job title (a "tour guide").

to quit
Why did you quit your job?

I had to leave my job due to health reasons.
We can use "to leave" as a general term 
to describe the act of ending employment.

He quit his job because of the long hours.
"to quit" means to voluntarily leave a job 
or position, often permanently.

"to leave" vs "to quit"
We can use the terms "to leave" and "to quit" interchangeably.

Regina left her job because she didn't earn enough.
He quit his job because of the long hours.

to leave = various reasons (e.g. dissatisfaction)
to quit = dissatisfaction or inconvenience

to earn
She didn't earn enough at her previous job.
She earns a lot of money.
"to earn" means to get money for work that you do.
She doesn't earn a lot of money as an artist.

2. Discussing office work
Have conversations at work

to have a meeting
I have a meeting first thing tomorrow morning.
Do we have a meeting today?
"to have a meeting" means to meet and discuss 
something with someone or a group of people.

We usually use "to have a meeting" to talk about 
a present or future event.

"to have" vs "to be in"

"to have a meeting" and "to be in a meeting" 
have similar meanings. 
The main difference is the time we usually refer to 
using these phrases (past, present, future).

to have a meeting
They're having a meeting at the moment. (present)
I have a meeting tomorrow morning. (future)

to be in a meeting
She's in a meeting at the moment. (present)
Sorry, I was in a meeting. (past)

I have a meeting tomorrow.
I'm in a meeting tomorrow.
"to have a meeting" and "to be in a meeting" 
have similar meanings.


to be at their desk
I'm at my desk.
She's not at her desk at the moment.

He is at his desk.
She is in a meeting.

to ask someone to do something
Did you ask Enrico to help you?
Did you ask him to prepare the presentation?

We use "to ask someone to do something" 
when we want another person to do a specific task.

Please ask Darren to print the documents.

to call
Could you call me tomorrow?

I called you yesterday. Did you get my message?

She asks "Can you call?" to mean "communicate by phone".

to email
I emailed him but he never replied.

Please email your feedback by Friday.
"to email" means to send a message to someone by email.

Can I email the report to you?

3. Learning collocations
Learn collocations for work

to have a chat
Let's have a chat after the meeting.

Let's have a chat after the meeting.
"to have a chat" means to have a casual conversation.

"to have a chat"
Using "to have a chat" can soften the tone of a 
request and make a conversation sound less formal.

less formal
Let's have a chat about your performance.

more formal
Let's talk about your performance.

Let's have a chat... can sound less formal
Let's talk about... can sound more formal

A manager might use "to have a chat" to make 
an employee feel more at ease.

to work from home
Does your company let you work from home?

I prefer to work from home when it's raining.
"to work from home" means someone works 
at their house instead of an office or workplace.

Sarah works from home on Fridays.

to book time off
I need to book time off for my holiday next month.

He asked to book some time off for his brother's wedding.

"to book time off" means to request or schedule 
a period of absence from work.

She wants to book time off to travel next month.
We usually use "to book time off" 
when we'll be absent from work for personal reasons.

to be off sick
He's off sick with the flu.

She was off sick last week.
John isn't at his desk. I think he's off sick.

4. Making polite requests
Make requests and give permission

Jane:
Come in.

John:
Hi, Jane. Do you mind if I ask you a few questions?

Jane:
Sure, John. Go ahead.

John:
Is it okay if I work from home tomorrow?

Jane:
Of course, just remember to email your manager about it.

John:
Can I book some time off next month?

Jane:
Of course, you can book one week if you want.

John:
Thank you, I just have one more question. 
Could I have a meeting with you and Mike this afternoon?

Jane:
Sorry, John, Mike is off sick this afternoon. 
But you can still have a meeting with me.



"Do you mind if..." is used to politely ask for permission.

Do you mind if...?
Do you mind if I ask you a few questions?
Do you mind if I work from home on Monday?

We can start a question with "do you mind if..." 
to sound more polite when asking for permission.

Do you mind if I ask you a few questions?

sure, go ahead
Jane says "sure" and "go ahead" to give 
John permission to ask her a few questions.

sure
Sure, work from home tomorrow.

go ahead
Sure, go ahead and book some time off.

Sure, John. Go ahead.
"Sure" is another way to say "yes". 
"Go ahead" means "you have permission".

Is it okay if...?
Is it okay if I work from home tomorrow?
Is it OK if I leave at five today?

of course
When Jane says "of course" she means "yes, 
you have permission to work from home".

can I
John starts his question with "can I...?" 
to politely request some time off.

Can I...?
Can I book some time off next month?
Could I ask you something?

of course
Of course, you can book one week if you want.

could I
John politely requests a meeting 
by starting his question with "could I...?".

Sorry, John, Mike is off sick this afternoon.

5. Talking with colleagues
Learn conversational phrases

Well...
Well, I think so.

Right...
Right, let's start the meeting.

Well, I think the meeting was successful.
We often use "Well..." when hesitating 
or introducing a new topic.

Right, let's discuss the new project.
We often use "Right..." to confirm something, 
or to introduce a new point.

Okay...
Okay, I'll join the meeting in five minutes.

So...
So, I think we should hire more staff.

Okay, I understand.
We often use "Okay..." to confirm or agree to something.

So, I'll tell the team.
We often use "So..." to introduce a conclusion or a result.

Filler words

We can use filler words in conversation to give 
ourselves more time to think, or 
for a specific purpose.

Well, I hope we can finish early.
We use "Well..." to introduce a new topic.

Right, let's review the report together.
We use "Right..." to confirm something, 
or to introduce a new point.

Okay, I'll send the files to you.
We use "Okay..." to confirm or agree to something.

So, we'll have a meeting tomorrow.
We use "So..." to introduce a conclusion or a result.

I was wondering...
I was wondering, how much did your flights to Brazil cost?

I was wondering when I can take a break.
We can use "I was wondering..." 
when asking for information in a polite way.

She says "I was wondering..." to politely ask 
when the next meeting will be.

I was wondering. 
How much did your flights to Brazil cost?

The reason I asked…
The reason I asked is because I want to go there next year.

The reason I asked is because I want to go there next year.

As I was saying…
As I was saying, the report is due Friday.

As I was saying, the project will be completed next week.
We often use "As I was saying..." to return 
to a point after being interrupted.

As I was saying...
We can use "As I was saying..." after interruptions 
or distractions.

Talk to you later.
I'm in a meeting, talk to you later.

I'm on a call, talk to you later.
"Talk to you later." is a casual and polite way to 
end a conversation.

Talk to you later.
In the workplace, we often use "Talk to you later." 
to end a phone call or video conference.

5. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

Do you mind if I book a holiday in June?
"Do you mind if...?" is a polite way to start a request.

Okay, how much time off do you need?
You may see "okay" shortened to "OK" in informal contexts.
Is it okay|ok if I take two weeks off?
Well, I'll need to approve the time off with your manager.

The reason I ask is because it's my sister's wedding.
"The reason I ask..." is often followed by "because" + a reason.

Right, that should be fine.

I was wondering how much time off I can take this year.
I'm on a call, talk to you later.

"Talk to you later." is a casual and polite way 
to end a conversation.

As I was saying, the project will be completed next week.
I was wondering when I can take a break.

He asked to book some time off for his brother's wedding.

Can I email the report to you?












































































































































