Chapter 30: Wishes

1. Hoping for the best
Learn expressions related to hopes and wishes

Wish me luck!
Alright, I'm going for the job interview. 
Wish me luck, everyone!
Amy asks everyone to give her support and 
hope as she goes for her job interview.

She uses a common expression, "Wish me luck", 
to ask others to wish her good luck.

I wish you good luck in your accounting exam tomorrow.

We use the expression "to wish someone luck" 
to express our well-wishes to someone.

Let's hope for the best.
I'm not sure if you're pregnant this time, 
but let's hope for the best.

He is unsure about it, but he is hopeful, 
so says the phrase "I hope for the best".

I wish you...good luck.
I hope...for the best.

We use the form "to hope" + "for" + something" 
or "to wish" + someone + "luck".

Here's a tip!
We follow the verb "to wish" with someone.
We usually use "to wish" with "luck".

We follow the verb "to hope" with "for".
We can also say "to hope" + "so" in place of "yes" 
to answer a question.

We wish you the best.
They hope for the best.

I wish you good luck.
She hopes so.

I wish you both all the best for your future.
We follow "to wish" with someone (e.g. a name or a pronoun).

Fingers crossed!
We worked so hard in this competition, 
so fingers crossed we win.

We cross our fingers or say, "fingers crossed" 
as a way to express hope or a wish.

Touch wood!
Audrey just had surgery, so touch wood she recovers fast.
He uses the phrase "to touch wood" 
(and knocks on some wood) as a gesture of hope.

Here's a tip!
Some expressions are based on superstitions 
that invite good luck ("fingers crossed") 
or protect against bad luck ("touch wood").

These are usually shortened to two words 
that describe an action.

"My fingers are crossed."
➡️ "fingers crossed"

"I touch wood (for good luck)."
➡️ "touch wood"

fingers...crossed
touch...wood

We cross our fingers (the index and middle fingers) 
and touch / knock on wood as superstitious acts.

She says "touch wood" before wishing 
that it will not rain in Edinburgh in October.

We're flying to Edinburgh in October, 
so touch wood it doesn't rain.
I think you should take a raincoat with you 
and hope for the best!

VOCABULARY
Wish me luck!
Let's hope for the best.
Fingers crossed!
Touch wood!

2. Expressing desires with "would"
Ask questions and express desires with "would"

Would you like...?
Would you like to get away for the weekend?

Would you like to see the specials?
We start a question with a verb, e.g. "would" 
then a pronoun, e.g. "you".

I'd like to...
I'd like to get away and relax.
I'd like to go away for the weekend.

We say "I'd" as a contraction of "I" and "would".

He'd love to...
He'd love to go kayaking in Canada.

I'd love to visit the Cotswolds one day.
We'd love to see you in Los Angeles this year.

She'd rather...
She'd rather hire a car than cycle.

I'd rather not have another drink.
We don't use "to" after "rather".

They'd prefer to...
They'd prefer to take a train.
Would you prefer to have your steak medium rare?

"to prefer" means to want "one thing rather than another".

Did you notice?

While "rather" is followed directly by the basic 
form of the verb, we need to add "to" between"prefer" and the verb.

I would rather book a hotel.
I would prefer to book a hotel.

She'd rather travel by plane.
He'd prefer to travel by car.

We use the base form of the verb after "rather", 
but we use "to" + verb after "prefer".

We'd prefer to book a package holiday.
She'd rather stay in.

Would you rather be a poor singer or a rich accountant?

We can ask "would you rather" to give people 
options. This is a popular game with difficult choices.

Here's a tip!
To form negative sentences we put "not" after 
"rather" and "prefer".

In all other cases, we put "not" right after 
"would". We can also use shortened forms in 
various ways, as you can see below.

I'd rather not go out tonight.
She wouldn't like to go to the concert.

He'd prefer not to stay late.
She'd not like to go to the concert.

He'd prefer not to stay late.
I'd rather not go out tonight.
She wouldn't like to spend the evening watching football.

We'd rather not hire a car.
They wouldn't like to miss the party.
I'd prefer not to go on a package tour.

He wouldn't like to get a tan.
She'd prefer not to spend too much time on it.
I'd rather not go out tonight.
We'd rather spend more time in Liverpool than in Bristol.

VOCABULARY
Would you like...?
I'd like to...
He'd love to...
She'd rather...
They'd prefer to...

3. First conditional
Form the first conditional

If I take some time off work, I'll go to Spain.
If the weather is nice, we will go to the beach.
"if the weather is nice" = condition, "we will go 
to the beach" = result

Form the first conditional
We use the "first conditional" when we believe 
a future situation is real or possible.

Here's how we form the "first conditional": ⤵️
if-clause / condition (present simple) + 
main clause / result (future simple)

if-clause / condition (present simple)
main clause / result (future simple "will")

If I'm free,
I'll go with you to the party.

If you don't hurry up,
we'll miss the train.

If I cancel tonight,
will the hotel charge me?

If I'm busy,
I won't go to the concert.

We expect the result of being free is that 
he'll go to the party. If he's busy, he won't go.

If we visit Paris, we'll see the Eiffel Tower.
In the if-clause, we need to use the present simple ("visit").

If I check the weather, I'll know what clothes to pack.
Here, the main clause requires the future simple ("I'll know").

If the flights are delayed, we will take the train.

If we pack sunscreen, we'll avoid sunburn.
We need to use: present simple ("pack") + 
future simple ("we'll avoid").

If you bring your swimsuit, we will swim at the beach.
If we take a cooking class, we'll learn new recipes.

We won't have a barbecue if it rains.

Word order
We can switch the order of the if-clause 
(condition) and the main clause (result). 🔄

Notice that we only use a comma (",") 
when the if-clause goes first. ⤵️

If it rains, we won't have a barbeque.
We won't have a barbeque if it rains.

If we stay in a hotel, we'll have breakfast included.
We'll have breakfast included if we stay in a hotel.

When the if-clause is first, we use a comma (","). 
When the main clause is first, we don't use a comma.

If we visit Wales, we'll see lots of castles.

We will explore the city easily if we rent bicycles.
I'll take lots of pictures if I bring my camera.

If you don't hurry up, we'll miss the train.
I'll go with you to the party if I'm free.

We can switch the order of the if-clause 
(condition) and the main clause (result)

I'll take lots of pictures if I bring my camera.
You will learn English if you practise|practice 
a little every day.

If we take a cooking class, we'll learn new recipes.
If we wake up early, we will see the sunrise.

4. Imagining the future
Practice the first conditional and 
other future forms to talk about wishes

Amaya is talking about a decision she has made 
for the future (to study medicine).

I've decided to go to university and study medicine.

I'd love to be a doctor one day.
We usually use "I would love" or "I'd love" 
with "to" + verb (e.g. "be").

If I pass it, then I'll start uni in September.
We use the base form of the verb "pass" in the 
if-clause and "will" + base verb in the result clause.

Alison booked a cabin for the weekend and they 
both planned activities depending on the weather.

We'll go wine tasting and hiking if the weather's good.

Dana uses the result clause first with "will", 
then uses the if-clause "if the weather's good".

What will Dana do if Alison proposes to her?
She'll definitely accept it.

Dana will say yes and accept Alison's proposal.
We've been together for eight years, 
so if she proposes, I'll definitely say yes!

If she proposes,I'll definitely say yes.
If she doesn't (propose),we'll still have a great trip.
Dana imagines both possible scenarios: 
Alison proposes and Alison doesn't propose.

If she doesn't, we'll still have a great trip. 
I won't be sad, touch wood.
We use the phrase "touch wood" to wish 
for good luck (or hope that she won't be sad).

He complains that he doesn't spend enough time 
with them because he travels a lot.

I'll miss watching them grow up if I'm always away.
Arthur uses the result clause first with "will", 
then uses the if-clause "if I'm always busy".

I'm quitting my job and starting my own business working from home.
Arthur uses the present continuous to talk about a future plan.

I won't make as much money, but I'd prefer 
watching my kids grow up.

5.More verb patterns
Form more verb combinations

It started raining. It started to rain.

Both sentences talk about an action ("rain") that began.

Here's a tip!
There are some verbs that we can use with either 
"-ing" or "to + verb", with no change in meaning, 
like "to begin", "to start" or "to continue".

It started raining.
It started to rain.

They continued working on the project.
They continued to work on the project.

We like going on holiday in the summer.
We like to go on holiday in the summer.

reading
He says "I should start reading newspapers" 
to express the start of a new habit.

We started dating in 2020 and continued to date until today.

We can also say "we started to date" and "we 
continued dating". Both forms mean the same thing.

Fred and Alice began to fall in love with each other.
After the word "to begin", we use either "to fall" or "falling".

I started to play|playing the piano when I was ten.

Verb patterns that change meaning
Some verbs can be followed by both the infinitive 
form and the "ing" form of a verb. However, the 
meaning can change, depending on which form is used.

Have a look at the examples below to see how the meaning changes.

I remember playing with my cousins.
(to recall an event)

Please remember to use gloves.
(to be reminded)

Try eating with chopsticks.
(to attempt something)

Try to come a bit earlier.
(to make an effort)

She stopped crying.
(to cease doing something)

Can we stop to buy some water?
(to take a break from one action in order to do another)

Remember to use gloves. 
I remember burning my hands when I did it.

The meaning of "remember" in the first sentence 
is different from the second one.
The word "remember" is used to remind someone 
and also to recall an event.

Please remember to use gloves.
The first sentence is a reminder ("to" + verb). 
The second sentence recalls an event ("-ing").

While driving home, I stopped to buy some milk.
She stopped driving and went to buy something.
We use "stop to" + verb to show we ended one 
action in order to begin another one.

I should stop sleeping late.
to cease a habit

On the way home, I'll stop to buy milk.
to stop one action and do another

We stopped eating in this restaurant 
because it wasn't good.

We use the pattern "to stop" + an "-ing" verb 
to talk about ceasing an activity or habit.

I tried doing yoga and I loved it!
to attempt a new activity

You should try to be on time.
to make an effort not to be late

I'm going to try exercising in the mornings.
We use "try" with an "-ing" verb to talk 
about attempting new activities and habits.

I remember playing video games as a kid.
a memory

Remember to call mum at 6pm.
a reminder

Jack, please remember to pay the travel agent for the flights.
We use "remember" with "to" + verb to remind 
someone to do something.

I like to cook food without oil. 
I really hate eating greasy food.
She uses two verb patterns ("I like to cook" and 
"I hate eating") but the meaning stays the same.

Here's a tip!
Nowadays, English speakers might follow the verbs 
"to like", "to love" and "to hate" with an "-ing" 
verb or with "to" + verb.

The meaning of these verb patterns are very 
similar, so can be used interchangeably.

I'd like to go to Kyoto.
I like travelling by train.

I love to visit museums.
We love listening to music.

I hate to live in this city.
She hates watching horror movies.

Janet loves to bake cookies.
Andrew and I love baking bread

He's trying to stay awake because he'd hate to 
stop writing before he's finished his report.

They hate watching football.
I like going to concerts.
I like eating|to eat out.
I want to start going to the gym.
I'm going to try using the new software and see 
if it is faster.

I started reading about Adele because 
I love listening to her music.

You're doing very well and should continue 
practising the guitar.

6. Developing fluency
Share your wishes for the future

I'd like to start my own new business one day.
After the verb pattern "would like", we use "to" 
+ verb ("to start").

If we save enough money, we'll buy a house next year.

If we can get a visa, we'll move to the States, 
fingers crossed.

We use the plural form "fingers" as we cross both 
fingers to wish for good luck.

I'd love to try a new hobby now that I'm retired.

I would love to be a grandfather one day.
We can contract the word "would" to an apostrophe 
"'" and the letter "d".

We'll have a beach wedding next spring 
if the weather's good.

Touch wood, we'll have a healthy and happy baby in March.

I'll throw a big party if I get the job!
If I start going to the gym, 
I will be|I'll be fitter and happier.

Go past the café to exit the station, 
then turn right and cross the road.


































































































