Chapter 4: Relationships

1. Exploring relationships
Talk about relationship statuses

I broke up with my partner last year.
Because he says "last year", a verb in the past simple 
is required: "broke up".

to break up
They broke up last year.

He is single, but goes on a lot of dates.
"to be single" means someone is not in a committed 
relationship, but they might be dating.

to be single
She's single and enjoys her free time.

to be married
They're married and have three children.

She is married to a famous actor.
"to be married" means "having a husband or a wife".

to be engaged
They're engaged and planning their wedding.

Are they engaged or just dating?

"to be engaged" means that two people have made 
a formal agreement to marry in the future.

Stephanie is going to get married in the future.

A couple will usually have a formal agreement to marry 
("to be engaged") before their wedding.

to be divorced
My aunt and uncle are divorced.

I got divorced two years ago.

Notice the pronunciation of "divorced" - 
it has two syllables and the "e" isn't pronounced.

She is divorced from her husband.
"to be divorced" means that two people have legally
 ended their marriage.

Tim and Angela have legally ended their marriage ("to be divorced").

"to be" refers to a current state. 
"to get" indicates an action or change. 
Here's how the meaning changes when talking 
about relationship statuses.

to be
Tim and Angela are married.
Are they engaged or just dating?

to get
We got married last month.
I got divorced two years ago.

Wendy and Tyrone got married last December.

to be a widow / to be a widower
She goes to a support group for widows and widowers.

a widow - feminine
a widower - masculine

The difference between a "widow" and a "widower" 
is based on gender.

She is a widow and misses her husband every day.
A "widow" is a female whose romantic partner has died 
and who has not remarried.

2. Using "get" and "become"
Form the past simple of "get" and "become"

to get
I got a car when I was 17.

I got a job in IT in 2011.
When talking about a time in the past, we use "got" with an "o".

Here's a tip!

When talking about an action in the past, we can use some 
expressions with "got" with an "o", which is the past 
form of "to get".

These expressions talk about obtaining something 
(e.g. a job) or a state of being.

got + a / the + noun
I got a house in New Hampshire.
I got the job at Frendo corp.

got + adjective
We got married last week.
I got sick after having too much milk.

got + preposition
I got up early this morning.
We got on the bus to Surrey.

My sister got married last month.
When using an adjective with "got", we don't need "a" or "the".

I got up at 9am this morning.
The phrase "got up" means to get out of bed.
Janet got a house in San Fernando Valley.

to become
I became a teacher in 2007.

I became a software developer 5 years ago.

We can also use some expressions using "became" 
with an "a". It is the past form of "to become".

These expressions talk about a state of being 
(e.g. job titles).

became + a / the + noun
Julian became the coach of the team.
Sally became a doctor like her father.

became + adjective
The café became busy at lunch time.
They became bored of playing the game.

I became sick after drinking too much wine at the party.
We use "become" or "got" with an adjective to talk about 
a state of being.

After I graduated from university, I became a fashion designer.
We use "became" + a job title. We use "got" to mean 
we obtained something (e.g. a job).

I got... a job as a nurse.
I became... a nurse.

We use "became" + a job title. We use "got" to mean 
we obtained something (e.g. a job).

They became tired after rehearsing the dance routine all day.
We use "become" with adjectives like "tired".

Sarah and Khalid got up at 8am to have breakfast.

About 20 years ago, after I studied English at university, 
I became a school teacher.
He is talking about a job title he had 20 years ago.

When I got married, I became a stepmother.
Who became the prime minister of New Zealand in 2017?
I became a programmer.
Claire got a job as a nutritionist.
I got up at 6.30am this morning.

3. Listening to a life story
Watch a video about someone's life

I was born in the United States to a multicultural family.
Rebecca's birthplace is the United States, 
but her family belongs to different cultures.

This is my grandpa. He was born in Italy.
Rebecca was born in the United States and 
her grandpa was born in Italy.

Rebecca's grandpa had to get a job in the navy when he was 18
We say "to get a job" to talk about finding work.

We had to get a job in the summer.
Adding "had to" expresses past obligation. 
To just talk about finding a job, say "got a job".

He travelled to East Africa and he was in the navy 
for many, many years.

After my grandpa got married, he got a job fixing cars in Ethiopia.

She was born in the United States but then moved 
to the United Kingdom.
And then, I moved to the United Kingdom.

Some common verbs require something else, not just 
adding "ed" at the end.

Below are some examples. ⤵️
travel – travelled ("l"+ "ed")
study – studied (change "y" to "i")
move - moved (+ "d")

Last year, I moved to Dubai and got a job at the airline.
We travelled a lot growing up because of my dad's job.

Beccavision – my grandpa

Hey guys, welcome back to Beccavision. 
My name is Rebecca and today, I want to tell you guys 
a little bit about my grandpa and his life story.

I was born in the United States to a multicultural family. 
This is my grandpa. 
He was born in Italy. 
His family didn’t have a lot of money growing up, 
so at the young age of 18, 
he had to get a job in the Italian navy.

He travelled to East Africa and he was in the navy 
for many, many years. 
But, when he was in East Africa, 
he actually met my grandma. 
They got married and they had three children: 
my aunt, my uncle and my dad.

After my grandpa got married, 
he got a job fixing cars in Ethiopia. 
His favourite thing to do was to drive his white car 
and take his family on road trips.

My dad, my aunt, my uncle, my grandpa and my grandma, 
made amazing memories in this time.

My dad loved travelling so much, 
he decided to move to the United States. 
This is where I was born. 
And then, I moved to the United Kingdom. 
This is where I go to university and this is where I live now.

So, thank you guys for watching, 
I hope you guys liked learning a little bit about me. 
Everybody has a family history and you should be 
proud of it. 
But for now, thanks for watching and I’ll see you later. Bye!

Glossary
multicultural (adj) – of different cultures
the navy (n) – the armed forces at sea
a road trip (n) – long distance travel
amazing memories (n) – a positive memory
to be proud (adj) – feeling happy for something done

I met my wife when I lived in Newcastle.

We made some amazing memories in this house.
We use "to make" with "memories". 
The past form is "made memories".

I was born in the United States and 
then I moved to the United Kingdom.

4. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

She grew up in Riyadh, but was born in Beirut.
We travelled to Sydney many times growing up.

When I was a child, we moved to Istanbul.
The time linker "when" introduces 
a specific time something happened.

My parents were born in Hong Kong. 
They moved to Canada before I was born. 
When I was 10 years old, I travelled to Hong Kong 
for the first time and I met my grandparents.

I grew up in Toronto, then I moved to Scotland 
to go to university. After I finished studying, 
I got a job in Edinburgh as a dentist.

My parents were born in Hong Kong, and I was born in Canada.
I was born in Chicago.
When I was 10, I met my grandparents in Hong Kong.

When I was 18, I got a job at a fast-food restaurant.
We can use "to get a job as" to state that someone 
is employed in a particular role.

I grew up in Toronto, then I moved to Scotland.
When we talk about ourselves we say "I grew up in", 
which is the past tense of "to grow up".

After I moved to Cyprus, I started a new business.
I met my husband in 2001. We got married in 2005.

I became a programmer.

































































































































































































