Chapter 18: Dishes

1. Eating vegan food
Learn language for talking about vegan food

a vegan burger
Can I order a vegan burger, please?
The vegan burger is delicious.

"A vegan burger" doesn't contain any ingredients 
sourced from animals.

an avocado
Do you want avocado on your vegan burger?
Can I add avocado to my vegan burger?

a side salad
Can I order a side salad with my vegan burger, please?

The vegan burger comes with a side salad.
"A side salad" or side of salad" is typically 
a small salad that comes with a main dish.


spinach
The salad with spinach is vegan.
There's spinach in the green juice.

a carrot
The juice with carrot is vegan.
The juice with carrot is good for your skin.

ginger
I put some ginger in the juice.

The green juice uses ginger, apple and spinach.
"Ginger" is commonly added to juices for health benefits.

fresh
The vegan café uses fresh fruit and vegetables.
We buy fresh vegetables every day.
Here, "fresh" means that the food is recently 
produced or picked and not processed.

to be served
The vegan burger is served with a side of chips.
When food is "served with" something, 
they are often presented together on the same plate.

The vegan burger is served with salad.
Here, "to be served with" suggests that the burger 
and salad will be presented together.

2. Learning about a vegan café
Watch a video about a vegan café in Tulum

Layla's Vegan Café

Digital Learning Associates

Narrator:
There’s a small town on the Caribbean coast of Mexico.

Title:
Tulum, Yucatán Peninsula, Mexico

Narrator:
With beautiful beaches, good weather all year round, 
and not too many people to share it with. 
For a lot of people, this is the perfect holiday place.

Title:
Layla’s Vegan Café

Narrator:
But even if you’re here to relax, 
you’ll still want to enjoy good, healthy food. 
That’s where "Laylo" comes in. 
"Laylo" is a vegan cafe run by Layla and Eduardo, 
or Lalo, as most people call him.

Title:
Laylo → Layla, Lalo

Narrator:
Lalo is Mexican. 
Layla is from the UK. 
But she fell in love with this little corner of Mexico. 
And decided it was just the right place to start 
her own vegan business.

"Laylo" is a vegan café in a small town 
on the Caribbean coast of Mexico.

Layla’s Vegan Café

Digital Learning Associates

Layla:
Welcome to Laylo!

Narrator:
Every day, Layla and Lalo go out and buy 
the best fruit and vegetables they need 
to prepare their vegan menu. 
Then, it’s time to prepare the food. 
Today, the menu includes a beetroot burger with 
tomato and avocado, a side of salad, and a green juice.

Title:
Today’s special, just 140$! - Beetroot burger 
with tomato and avocado. Served with salad- Green juice

Narrator:
Laylo is famous for Lalo’s fruit juices. 
He uses really fresh fruit and vegetables.

Layla and Lalo make ("prepare") the food everyday.

Layla’s Vegan Café

Digital Learning Associates

Title:
Fresh Juices 60$

Green: apple + spinach + ginger
Orange: apple + orange + carrot

Narrator:
If you choose one with ginger, it’ll help with a sore throat. 
Or try one with some carrot–it’s good for your skin and your eyes!

They’re great for your health and just 
what you want on a hot day in Tulum!

Layla and Lalo are vegan, too. 
They know that if we all eat less meat and dairy, 
we’ll help fight climate change. 
And they are not alone.

All around the world more and more people are becoming vegan. 
They want food that’s good for them, and good for the planet.

And Layla and Lalo are always ready to listen to 
what they want, and bring it to the table.

Green juice: apple + spinach + ginger
The green juice contains fresh spinach.

3. Describing dishes
Learn adjectives to describe tastes

sweet
I fancy something sweet now.
Can we get some sweet popcorn?
"sweet" refers to the pleasant taste of sugar or honey.

spicy
Can you handle spicy food?
I like to add chilli and make my food spicy!

sour
Lemons are sour.
He doesn't like the sour taste of lemons.
"sour" refers to the acid taste of food like lemons and vinegar.

Lemons are... sour.
Sugar is...sweet.
Chilli can be...spicy.

bitter
My mum used to give me medicine that was so bitter.

If your coffee is too bitter, just add some sugar.
"bitter" is a sharp, sometimes unpleasant taste 
that contrasts with "sweet".

salty
Everything was too salty.
I prefer salty food over sweet food.
We say "salty" to describe food that contains "salt".

I like to add honey to make the fish sweet 
because it can get too salty.
He uses honey to make the fish sweet, 
otherwise it would be too salty.

"salty" food is any type of food that is high in sodium.

It is distinct from "savoury" / "umami" 
as these refer to food that is slightly salty 
(i.e. not sweet) or contains glutamate.

Cured ham, crisps and sauces can be very salty.
Cured ham, crisps and sauces can be very salty.


Steak, cheese and mushrooms are savoury or umami.
Steak, cheese and mushrooms are savoury or umami.

Steak and mushrooms are savoury food, not sweet at all.
Food that is “savoury” can be slightly salty, but not sweet.

She said the pudding was too sweet and the coffee was too bitter.

I prefer to have a more savoury breakfast like eggs on toast.
I think dark chocolate is too bitter.

4. Reading a restaurant review
Describe your experience in a restaurant

That was delicious.
I really like this lasagne. It is delicious!
We say "delicious" to describe food that tastes very good.

There are many ways to say that food is "delicious". 
You may hear the words "tasty", "delish" and "yummy". 
All of them have similar meanings!

This fish is tasty!
French patisseries? They're yummy!
Your tiramisu was delish!

That molten cheesecake was so yummy! – It was super tasty!

bland
It was alright, but quite bland.

I think this roast beef needed more flavour. 
It was too bland.
This describes food that doesn't taste of much.

My sister can't cook. Her food is bland and dry.
We say "bland" to describe food that has little to no flavour.

greasy
It was great, but very greasy.
I don't like fried fish. The oil makes it too greasy.
We describe very oily or fatty food as "greasy".

It was great, but very greasy.
We can use this word when something's very oily.

Food with no taste is...bland.
Delicious food is...tasty.
Too much oil makes food...greasy.

I can make us a delicious chicken wrap for lunch.
Hank said the pie was bland, but I thought it was delish!

I found those spring rolls a bit too greasy.
ကော်ပြန့်

Is the food at Sydney's new pub worth it?

The Crown Inn
★★★✩✩
$$

Sydney's new British restaurant looks just like a real 
pub in the UK, but not all the food was delicious.

The calamari we had for starters was a bit greasy 
and the chicken wings were very salty! 
The main course was better. 
We had chicken tikka masala (which wasn't too spicy) 
and a well-done lamb steak, which came with a rather 
bland Yorkshire pudding.

The best part was the dessert! The Eton mess was yummy 
and the raspberry sauce was not too sour at all!

The dessert was described as "yummy" (delicious) 
but not the starters.

a starter - chicken wings
a main course - chicken tikka masala
a dessert - Eton mess

4. Having a picnic
Watch a video about a picnic

How many would you like? – One, please.
When asked "how many?", we can respond 
with just a number and the word "please".

How much juice would you like?
We can ask "How much would you like?" or 
"How many would you like?".

That's enough.
While someone is pouring us a drink, we can say 
"that's enough" when the amount is sufficient.

How many apples would you like?
How much juice would you like?
We use "many" with countable nouns and "much" with uncountable nouns.

How much food do you have in that basket?
The word "food" is uncountable, so we use "much".

No, thank you. I can't eat any more.

I don't want...any more.
That is...enough, thanks.

Georgina says "maybe later" because she is full 
from eating the other food.

Leo and Georgina leave the park because it is going to rain.
They go into a pet shop so that they don't get wet from the storm.

four adjectives that describe the weather in Brazil
warm, sunny, windy, rainy

a pet
We have a pet dog called Rocky.
Do you have any pets?

Georgina has a big dog.
Leo has a cat.
Leo's father keeps lots of fish.

a lizard
I wanted a pet lizard, but my parents said no.

a hamster
We had a pet hamster called Biggy.
I like the hamsters. Small but so cute!

6. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

She thinks there's too much salt in the curry.
I had a cocktail; it was too sweet for me.
I love eating spicy food.
Do you think this sauce is too spicy?
She added sour cherries to the cake.
This cake is delicious.
She cooked a delicious meal for us.
My girlfriend said my cooking is bland.

7. Review
A quick review of recent lessons

I have made the bed.
the washing up

Can you do me a favour?

to go went
to be was
to make made

to put away
I've vacuumed|I have vacuumed|I vacuumed 
the living room and our bedrooms.

Have you finished the cleaning?

Where has|Where's Maria gone?
We need to do the housework.
Sophia has done the housework.

Maria and Leo are going out for dinner. 
Let's listen to what they talk about at the restaurant!

Do you want to order some bread?
In this sentence, "some bread" can refer to one slice 
as well as two or even more slices of bread.

Shall I top up your glass?

Don't spoil your appetite.
This means that you shouldn't eat right before dinner.
The roast salmon sounds delicious.
Could I have some napkins please?
I don't want any bread.

Where did|How did|When did you hear about it?

What might we do if something is sticking to the pot?
stir it

What are you having for a main|main course|main meal?
I'm having tiramisu for dessert.

Maria doesn't want anything heavy.
It sounds tasty, but maybe it's spicy.
She made a cake for my birthday.











































































































































