Chapter 21: My neighbourhood

1. Describing your neighbourhood
Learn adjectives for urban areas

a neighbourhood
I live in a nice neighbourhood.

Is there a park in your neighbourhood?
She's asking if there's a park in the area where he lives.

A "neighbour" or a "neighbourhood"?

A "neighbour" refers to a person who lives near or next to you.
A "neighbourhood" refers to the area or 
community where you and your neighbours live.

My neighbour Jane is always friendly and says hello.
We moved into this neighbourhood last year and love it.

A "neighbour" relates to a person. 
A "neighbourhood" relates to an area.

crowded
There are so many people living here; 
it’s a bit crowded.

There are so many people living here; it’s a bit crowded.

The word "crowded" can mean that there are 
a lot of people or too many people in one place.

local
We went to our local park for a picnic.

I bought fresh vegetables from the local market.
The word "local" means relating to an area near you or 
the place where you live.

Usually, "local" is used as an adjective to describe 
a place that's in an area near you 
(e.g. a "local market").

In the UK, the phrase "my local" is an informal way 
to refer to a place in or near your neighbourhood 
that you visit frequently.

a pub
I'm going to my local for a beer.

a shop
I'm just going to my local to get some milk.

He says "my local", which means a place 
he visits frequently, most likely a pub or bar.

dangerous
Be careful walking alone at night. It can be dangerous.
Be careful, that area can be dangerous.

We use "dangerous" to refer to something 
that might cause us harm.

safe
Apparently, the area's very safe.
Don't worry, this neighbourhood is safe.

The word "safe" means the opposite of "dangerous".

quiet
My neighbours are very quiet.
My neighbours are so quiet.

Here, "quiet" means that the neighbours make very little noise.

peaceful
It's so peaceful here. It makes a nice change from the city.
I live in a peaceful village in England.

We can use "peaceful" to describe an area that's quiet and calm.

I'm moving to a new neighbourhood.
UK English uses "neighbourhood" ("our"). 
US English uses "neighborhood" ("or").

My children go to the local primary school.
She says "local school", which means the school is 
in an area near her.

We went to the local library today.
When we call a place "local", we usually mean 
that it's close to the place where we live.

Don't worry, this area's safe.
Be careful, that area can be dangerous.

"safe" = without physical danger. 
"dangerous" = likely to injure or harm someone.

Is this a dangerous neighbourhood?
I want to buy a house in a safe neighbourhood.

So many people live in my city; it's really crowded.
My street is really quiet; it's a peaceful place to live.

"crowded" = having a lot of or too many people. 
"quiet" = very little noise.

My city is really crowded.
We often use "crowded" to say that there are 
too many people in one place.

He lives in a peaceful neighbourhood.
I like living in the countryside because it's quiet.

2. Describing local businesses
Learn vocabulary to talk about local services

a bakery
There's a great bakery in my neighbourhood.
I always buy bread from the local bakery.

A "bakery" is a place where baked goods are made and often sold.

a pharmacy
Does the pharmacy sell vitamins?
The pharmacy closes at 8pm.
A "pharmacy" is a shop, or part of a shop, 
where medicines are prepared and sold.

A "pharmacy" vs a "chemist's"
In the UK, a "chemist's" is a place where you can buy 
medicines, cosmetics and some household goods. 
In the US, a "chemist's" is often called a "drugstore".

A "pharmacy" is a shop, often found inside a "chemist's", 
and is the place where medicines are prepared and sold.

a pharmacy - where medicines are prepared and sold

a chemist's
where you can buy medicine, cosmetics and some household goods

In the UK, a "pharmacy" can be a shop or 
part of a shop like a "chemist's".

a newsagent's
There's a newsagent's next to the train station.

The newsagent's also sells bus tickets.
Here, we need to use an apostrophe (') + "s" 
to indicate possession ("newsagent's").

A "newsagent's" vs a "corner shop"
In the UK, a "newsagent's" typically sells newspapers 
and magazines. In the US, you might buy your newspaper 
from a "newsstand".

A "corner shop" (UK) or a "convenience store" (US) is 
a local store offering a broader range of groceries 
and household items, as well as newspapers and magazines.

newsagent's -typically sells newspapers and magazines
corner shop -
typically sells a range of groceries and household items

a post office
Do you go past a post office on the way to work?
The post office is closed on Sundays.
A "post office" is a place where we can send and receive mail.

a supermarket
The supermarket is open until midnight.
The supermarket offers home delivery.
A "supermarket" is a large shop that sells 
a wide variety of food and other household items.

a shopping centre
I'll meet you at the shopping centre at 3pm.
There's a cinema in the shopping centre.
A "shopping centre" is a collection of shops, 
typically in one building.

A "shopping centre" vs a "mall"
A "shopping centre" and a "shopping mall" can both be 
used to refer to a large building containing a variety of shops.

The term "shopping mall" (or just "mall") is more 
commonly used in the US.

a large building containing a variety of shops
a mall
A "mall" and a "shopping centre" can both refer 
to a large building containing a variety of shops.

I need to go to the pharmacy to pick up my medicine.

Where can we go to send and receive mail?
a post office
We can send and receive mail at a "post office".
I need to go to the post office to send a parcel.

My local bakery sells delicious bread.
A "bakery" will typically make and / or sell bread and cakes.

I buy my newspaper from the local newsagent's.

I'm going to the supermarket to buy groceries.
He's going to a "supermarket", which is a large shop 
that sells food and household goods.

There's a bakery section in the supermarket.

I bought a new dress at the shopping centre.
British English = "centre" ("re"). 
US English = "center" ("er").

3.Talking to your neighbours
Share experiences from living in your neighbourhood

How our neighbourhood has changed

Julia: Hey Hugo, have you noticed how much our 
neighbourhood has changed? I've lived here 
since I was a child. 
I think things have changed a lot since my day.

Hugo: Yes, Julia! It used to be quiet and peaceful. 
Now it's more crowded, and nobody has done anything 
about the traffic here for years.

Julia: True. I've worked in the area for ten years and 
seen it change so much. But there are some positives. 
The new shopping centre has brought more people to the area. 
There are also more local shops, like the bakery and pharmacy.

Hugo: I agree, but it's sad they closed the local post 
office and newsagent's. Also, there are some places 
that feel dangerous, like the park.

Julia: I know! 
The park was always a safe and peaceful place when we were young.

Hugo says "nobody has done anything about the 
traffic", which means there is still a lot of traffic.

3. Visiting tourist places
Describe places of interest in your neighbourhood

a stadium
The new stadium is just 5 minutes from my house.
Many people visit the stadium on weekends to watch football.

A "stadium" is typically a large venue for sports, 
concerts or other events.

The school's sports day is held at a large venue (a "stadium").

a museum
The museum is a great place to spend a rainy day.
The museum offers free entry on Sundays.

A "museum" is where you can learn about history, art, 
culture and science through displayed objects.

We can learn about local history at the museum.

a gallery
There's a gallery in my neighbourhood that features local artists.
I bought a beautiful painting from the gallery.

the place where works of art are displayed and sold.
a gallery
A "private art gallery" can display and sell works of art.

a park
The park is a great place for a picnic.
There's a beautiful park in my neighbourhood.
A "park" is a public green space for recreation and relaxation.

I love to read a book in the park.
In British English, we often do not pronounce the "r" in "park".

a church
We had our wedding in the local church.

Every Christmas, the church is decorated with lights.
A "church" is a building used for public Christian worship.

Other places of worship

A "church" is a place typically used for Christian worship. 
Here are some other places of worship that might be visited by tourists.

a mosque
an Islamic place of worship

a synagogue
a Jewish place of worship

a temple
a place for many types of worship, like Hinduism or Buddhism

The church organises charity events for the community.

a park - a large area of grass
a gallery - a place that displays or sells artwork
a church - a place for Christian worship

a square
The square is surrounded by shops and cafés.

There's a famous market in the square every Christmas.
A "square" can refer to a public open space in an urban area.

Famous squares
A "square" is an open area in a city or town 
where people can gather and events are held. 
Here are some famous squares around the world.

London, UK
Trafalgar Square

New York City, USA
Times Square

Rome, Italy
St Peter's Square

I went to Times Square when I visited New York.

4. Watching a vlog about life in a town
Watch someone describe their town

a fair
The fair around the corner has a large Ferris wheel.

Navy Pier is a fair near the lake.
A fair is an amusement park that has rides 
(e.g. a Ferris wheel).

a play
We can watch a play at the local theatre.
See a play in the Shakespeare Theater.

In British English 🇬🇧, "theater" is spelled 
as "theatre" ("r" before "e").

a baseball game
Would you like to watch a baseball game this weekend?

They can see a Cubs or Sox baseball game.
We usually use "game" or "match" for sports 
competitions. Cubs and Sox are Chicago teams.

Let's watch a baseball...game.
We can go to the theatre to watch a...play.
I love riding the Ferris wheel at the...fair.

Cameron:
Hi, my name is Cameron. 
When I was younger, I lived right in the middle of Chicago. 
Now, I live in a town outside the city called Glenview.

Life out here is very different than life in the city. 
There are lots of things to do for fun in Chicago.

Kids my age can go to Navy Pier. 
Navy Pier is a fair near the lake and 
they can ride the Ferris wheel or see a play in the 
Shakespeare Theater.

They can see a Cubs or Sox baseball game or 
visit restaurants in The Loop - 
The Loop is what we call the central part of Chicago.
My brother loves to skateboard. I'm trying to learn to do it.

Cameron:
In my town now, there isn't a lot to do other than go shopping. 
Most weekends, my friends and I spend time at the mall 
trying on clothes or smelling scented candles.

Life in a city like Chicago moves very fast. 
If you can get a good job in a bank or a big company 
you can makes lots of money. 
But although there are lots of things you can do 
for fun, most people don't have the time to do them.

In a smaller town like mine, everything is a bit slower. 
There are lots of parks where you can ride your bike or read a book. 
My brother loves to skateboard. 
I'm trying to learn to do it. 
I'm not very good but I'm getting better at it.

When I moved from Chicago to a new town, 
it took me some time to get used to all the changes 
but I made new friends and found new things to do 
and now it feels like home.

Thanks for watching! See you soon!

Cameron says that living in Glenview is not the same 
as living in Chicago ("very different").

She used to live in Chicago when she was younger, 
but moved to Glenview (outside of the city).

You can go to a fair called...the Navy Pier.
You can see a baseball game of...the Cubs or Sox.
You can see a play at...The Shakespeare Theater.

to skateboard
I learned how to skateboard at my local park.

In the US 🇺🇸, a "mall" refers to a shopping mall, 
a large building complex with lots of shops. 🛍️

In the UK 🇬🇧 and Australia 🇦🇺, these places are 
usually called "shopping centres".

5. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

Where's the nearest pharmacy?
A "pharmacy" is a shop, or part of one, 
that sells medicines and drugs.

There's a pharmacy down the street.

a supermarket
a large shop selling groceries and household items

a shopping centre
multiple shops of various types under one roof

Have you visited the museum?
The museum is in the main square.
There are some great cafés in the main square.
There's a famous market in the square every Christmas.
I live in a peaceful village in England.


















































































































































