Chapter 6: Habits

1. Describing habits
Talk about common daily habits

to set an alarm
I set my alarm for 7:15am on weekdays.

I set an alarm to 5 o'clock so that I wake up in the morning.
An alarm is a device that rings at a specific time. 
We can use this to wake us up.

I set my alarm for 5:30am, but I always snooze it.
We use the verb "to set" with "an alarm" to say 
that we set a time for an alarm to ring.

to brush your teeth
We brush our teeth every evening.

Lloyd's family are from Hong Kong, 
where it is common to brush their teeth before breakfast.

Here's a tip!
In some countries, it is customary to brush your teeth 
before breakfast, while in others they do it after.

Oral hygiene habits vary across the world, but it is 
recommended that we clean our teeth twice a day.

In the US, we brush our teeth after breakfast.
We use "to brush" with the plural of "tooth", which is "teeth".

to check your phone
I check my phone every 10 minutes for new messages.

I check my phone every time it vibrates.
We use "to check" to describe looking at your phone 
for any calls or messages received.

I check... my phone for messages.
I set...an alarm to 6:15 am.
I brush...my teeth before breakfast.

to have a snack
I always have a snack when I watch TV.

My dad usually has a snack when he watches TV.
We use the verb "to have" with food or a snack.

Dinner isn't ready yet so have a snack.

to sleep in
I tend to sleep in at the weekend.

On Sundays, I like to sleep in and check my phone.
The phrase "to sleep in" means to stay in bed later 
than usual in the morning.

Here's a tip!
Are you an "early bird" (a morning person) 
or a "night owl" (a night person)? 🐥🦉

Around 33% of people in the UK are night owls.

I'm an early bird, so I don't like to sleep in.
I'm a night owl. I always snooze my alarm in the morning.

My wife's a night owl and loves to sleep in, 
but I'm an early bird. I always set my alarm to 6am.

She sleeps in and she snoozes her alarm.
She hates waking up in the morning so she sleeps in. 
She also snoozes her alarm.

2. Adverbial phrases
Learn adverbial phrases of time and frequency

every other day
I phone my dad every other day.

I wash my hair every other day.

The phrase "every other day" means doing something 
on alternate days / every two days.

all the time
He wears his favourite watch all the time.

Dan, you need to get out more. 
You're in your bedroom all the time.

"all the time" can sometimes indicate that we think 
something happens too frequently to the point of annoyance.

I see you together all the time.
The phrase "all the time" is the same as "always".

Here's a tip!

We can use adverbial phrases with "every" or "all" + time 
to say how often we do something.

The phrase "all the time" means "always", 
though sometimes it can be an exaggeration to show annoyance.

all the time
Sandy leaves the lights on all the time. It's annoying!


every other day
I go jogging in the park every other day on Tuesdays, T
hursdays, and Saturdays.

every now and then
We go hiking in the mountains every now and then.

every once in a while
They have a picnic in the park every once in a while.

every now and then
We all go out every now and then.

every once in a while
We go on holiday every once in a while.

I see my friends all the time.  -always
I go out every now and then. - sometimes

The phrase "all the time" means always. 
The phrase "every now and then" means sometimes.

"I'm an early bird, but every now and then I sleep in."

They still get together for dinner every now and then.

Every other day I cook fo dinner so mondays, wedensdays, and fridays.
what about thuesday and thursday?
she cook for me.

Jason cooks every other day, not every day.

Every once in a while, she paints.
The form is "once" + "in" + "a" + "while". 
This means something happens occasionally.


every now... and then
every once... in a while
every other... day

once a week
We play games once a week.

We can either say "one time per day" or "once a day".

We can also use "once", "twice" or a number + "times" to 
say how frequently we do something within a period of time.

I visit my family once a month.
She brushes her teeth twice a day. 
I run four times a week.

twice a day
The word "twice" means two times. We add "a" + time 
to specify how often something recurs.

I have a shower two times a day because I go to the gym.
We use a number with "times", e.g. "two times". 
Otherwise we just say "twice".

She visits her parents three times a month.

3. Talking about annoying habits
Listen to a couple complain about each other's habits

to snore
I can't sleep because you snore every night.

My wife says that I snore every night.
He uses the verb "to snore", so is talking about 
what happens when he's sleeping.

to bite your nails
I sometimes bite my nails when I'm nervous.

I bite my nails all the time.
We use "to bite" to describe the act of cutting 
our nails with our teeth.

to chew loudly
Please close your mouth because you chew loudly.

Kerrie, I can hear you when you eat. You chew so loudly!
My dog chews his food so loudly!

The most common habits that people say they find annoying 
are being late, chewing loudly and snoring.

Be aware that snoring is not a habit, but a condition.
You snore in bed all the time.
😴

Every so often I bite my nails.
😬💅

Sometimes you chew very loudly.
🫢

Tom chews....very loudly.
Diane bites...her nails.

We use "to chew" with an adverb of sound 
and "to bite" with an object like nails.

I don't chew very loudly but I bite my nails all the time.

to be messy
Joan's room is usually very messy.

My sister's kitchen is always messy.
The word "messy" describes a place or person that is untidy.

to be late
Marsha is always late for her meetings.

Phil, you are always late for work. 
You need to set an alarm!

"late" means "not on time".
You should set an alarm so that you are not late for work.

Lucy:
Oh my God, James. JAMES! Wake up!

James:
Huh.. what?

Lucy:
You're late for work!

James:
Really? What time is it?

Lucy:
Check your phone. Uh...You never set an alarm!

James:
Well, I have to sleep in because I can't sleep at night. 
You snore all the time.

Lucy:
What? I don't snore!

James:
You are so loud, Lucy. Like when you eat. 
You chew loudly as well.

Lucy:
Oh, please, James. At least I'm tidy. 
You never clean the house. You are so messy!

James:
I do clean the house once in a while.

Lucy:
Look, James. We can't live like this. 
We must change our habits.

We use the verb "to set" with "an alarm" to say 
that we set a time for an alarm to ring.

4. Modals of obligation
Advise with "should", "must" and "have to"

should
You should set an alarm so you wake up on time.
You should eat more vitamins.
We use "should" to give advice or a recommendation.

I should go to the dentist soon.
We use "should" before the main verb ("go") to give 
advice or a suggestion.

must
I must schedule an appointment for my check-up.
I must get a new chair, this one is giving me back pain.
We use "must" for necessity or a strong obligation.

to have to
I have to see a doctor about my cough.

We have to be on time.
The phrase "have to" comes before the main verb ("be") 
to express obligation.

When we follow someone's advice, a general rule or a law, 
there is often some sense of obligation implied.

Words like "should", "have to" and "must" help us express 
various levels of obligation connected to our actions.

You should eat more vitamins.
to give advice or a recommendation

You have to work at 10am.
to express obligation

I must tell my boss that I picked up a bug.
to express a strong necessity

has, to, should
Words like "should" and "have to" help us express various 
levels of obligation connected to our actions.

should - to give advice
must - to say something is necessary

We use "should" to give advice, e.g. "You should exercise more."

You should apply for that job. You're perfect for it!
I need to pick up some groceries after work.

We use "need to", "have to" and "must" to give 
strong advice or express obligation.

"To need to" has a similar meaning to "have to" or "must". 
We can use it to explain a rule, give advice or express 
our plans, as you can see below.

You need to hand in your sick note within three days.
He needs to pick up some groceries after work.
I need to find a replacement for my shift on Sunday.

You should brush your teeth.
You need to drink more water.
He has to drive everyone home.

Sheila, you need to take more vitamins. Your skin is very dry!
Sheila is given some strong advice about her skin.
You need to do more exercise!

You've been feeling sick all day, you should really see a doctor.
Sarah has to work.

He says that Sarah has to work, implying 
she is following orders from her job.

You have to set your alarm for 5 o'clock so you wake up early.
Maria has to finish her presentation tonight.

a necessity
He uses "must" to express the necessity of hiring 
a replacement when he leaves his job.

We must|have to|need to find someone to cover for Lionel, 
he's off sick.

5. Reading about a new routine
Read a blog about a change in habits

It's my 30th birthday this week and 
I want to create new habits to live a more healthy life.

I'm always late to work because I like to sleep in. 
At night, I can't sleep because 
my partner snores very loudly, 
so I just watch TV until 2am. 
Every so often when I'm stressed, 
I bite my nails or have a snack, 
like biscuits or chocolate. 
But I don't exercise so I gain a lot of weight!

Set an alarm. ⏰

I have to get to work on time, so I will set an alarm for 6am. 
I'm not an early bird, so this will be difficult. 
I'll brush my teeth before breakfast, 
as the toothpaste usually helps me wake up!


Relax and eat fruit. 🍎

Next, I need to move my body more, so I'll walk home after work. 
I should eat snacks that are healthy, like fruit, not biscuits. 
Once in a while, I can try something new, 
like yoga to relax and feel less stressed. 🧘‍♀️

Sleep early. 😴
Finally, I must go to bed early, 
so I will have my dinner at 6pm. 
Also, I have to stop watching TV and checking my phone 
before I sleep.

Liz will set an alarm so she doesn't get to work late.
Liz uses "on time" to say that she does not want 
to be late for work.

6. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

My daughter must go to bed early.

You have to set an alarm so you're not late for work.
We should brush our teeth before breakfast.
We have to eat healthy snacks.
You need to stop biting your nails all the time.
I need to set an alarm.
I should only check my phone every so often.
Carol must go to bed at 10pm, but she is a night owl.
I need to go to bed early so I am not late for work.














































































































































