Chapter 2: Family members

1. Talking about extended family
Talk about your family

I have cousins on my dad's side of the family, 
but we're not close.

cousin
My cousin's eighteen.

My cousin's eighteen.
We use the word "cousin" for both male and female cousins.

uncle
I have one uncle.

aunt
My aunt lives in Shanghai.
Your "aunt" can refer to the sister of your mom or dad, 
or your uncle's wife.

nephew
My nephew is my brother's son.

niece
My niece is my brother's daughter.


Your brother or sister's son is... your nephew.
Your brother or sister's daughter is... your niece.

I have one niece and two nephews.

2. Talking about grandparents
Talk about grandparents and grandchildren

grandmother
My grandmother is from Brazil.

grandfather
My grandfather speaks Portuguese.

My grandfather was from the United States.
Notice that he says "was" and not "is". 
This suggests his grandfather is not alive now.

The past simple "was" is used to talk about someone who's not alive now.

grandparents
My grandparents on my dad's side live near us.

I live with my grandparents.
We can use "grandparents" to refer to both "grandmother" 
and "grandfather" together.

Some people talk about their grandparents using shorter 
names such as these below:

grandmother 👵
granny, grandma, nana


grandfather 👴
grandad, grandpa, pops

granddaughter
My granddaughter is twelve years old.
I see my two granddaughters every weekend.

grandson
We have one grandson.

granddaughter -  a female grandchild
grandson - a male grandchild

grandchildren
We have two grandchildren.
The word "grandchildren" can refer to both male and female children.

3. Meeting Nadiya's family
Learn about Nadiya's family in Bangladesh

Nadiya is a famous cook. 
She won the Great British Bake Off, a TV competition.

She lives in the UK with her husband and her children.
Nadiya lives in the UK but has family in Bangladesh.
 She has more than one child.

Her parents are from Bangladesh, but she grew up in the UK.
Nadiya's a woman, so we use the female pronouns "her" 
and "she" to describe her.

Sometimes I feel like I don't know the Bangladeshi 
side of me that much.
Nadiya's "Bagladeshi side" refers to the part of her 
family which comes from Bangladesh.

Nadiya has three sisters, and two brothers"

Nadiya travels to Bangladesh

Narrator:
Her parents live in Bangladesh now. In a
small village near Sylhet. At the airport, her
dad picks her up.

Nadiya:
How are you?

Narrator:
Together, they drive to the family village. 
Her mum is there to meet her.

Nadiya In Bengali:
Come over here, come closer!

Narrator:
So are her and uncles and aunts. And her
cousins. And their children. They know she is
a famous chef in the UK now, and are very
happy for her.

Nadiya's dad:
Nadiya, you’ve got lot of other guests here.

Nadiya:
I did not think I was gonna cry. 
I thought I didn’t miss them, it turns out I do.

Narrator:
Next, she goes to see her grandmother. 
She is very important to Nadiya.

Nadiya In Bengali:
Let me see you.

Narrator:
Nadiya stays in the village with her family for one week. 
She cooks with them, and learns from them, 
and is sad when it’s time to say goodbye. 
She leaves her family, but continues her travels 
in Bangladesh. 
She will meet new people, try new things 
and learn all about her family’s country.

At the airport her dad picks her up.
The phrasal verb "picks her up" means 
he goes to the airport to meet her and take her home.

Her mom is there to meet her. So are her uncles and aunts, 
and her cousins and their children.

the phrasal verb "turns out".

4. Understanding family relationships
Talk about the nature of your family relationships

How do you know each other?
Notice the rising intonation in this question. 
The second word is stressed in the phrase: "each other".

"Each other" and "one another"
We can use the phrases "each other" and "one another" 
to show a reciprocal action between different people 
in a group.

e.g. "Clara and her parents give each other gifts." 
means that Clara gives a gift to her parents 
and her parents also give her a gift."

My cousin and I aren't close, but we see one another at Christmas.

I don't get on well with my sister. 
We always fight with each other.

My mom and my aunt meet up with each other once a month.

Do you get on well with your family?
I get along well with my parents.

"to get along well with someone" means you have 
a good relationship with them.

Do you get on well with your family?
We use "Do you get on well...?" to ask someone 
if they have a good relationship with someone.

I get along well with my parents.

Describing relationships
Did you notice we can use the phrasal verbs "get on" and 
"get along" to say that we have a good or bad relationship 
with someone?

We can use them to talk about anyone we know, 
not just our family, and they both mean the same thing.

I get along well with my parents.
I don't get on well with my sister.

Are you close to your cousins?
Are you close to your niece?

Both "near" and "close" have a similar meaning, 
but we can only use "close" with people.

I'm very close to my grandparents.
I'm not very close to my grandparents.
He says "I'm not very close" so he doesn't have 
a very special relationship with them.

I'm very close to my cousins.

We use the phrase "to be close" to say that we have 
a strong relationship with someone.

Do you and your cousin see one another often?
I don't get on well with my sister. 
We always fight with each other.

My cousin and I aren't close, 
but we see one another at Christmas.

We use "one another" when each member of a group 
does an action (see) to the other members.

My brother and sister always fight with each other.
I love my grandparents, but we don't often see one another.

5. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

She has "two children" (a son and a daughter).
We have two children, a son and a daughter.
The only words which refer to "children" are "son" and "daughter".

I have two brothers and one sister.
I have one uncle and two aunts.
My cousins live on my street.
Your "cousin" is the child of your "aunt" or "uncle".

I only have one cousin.

the child of your brother or sister
nephew, niece
"nephew" = son of your brother or sister, 
"niece" = daughter of your brother or sister

I have a nephew.
I have a niece.









































































































































































































