Chapter 14: Cleaning up

1. "to do" or "to make"?
Learn when to use "to do" and "to make"

to do
Have you done your homework?
I did all the housework today.

"housework" refers to general cleaning tasks.

Have you done the ironing?
I did nothing yesterday.

We generally use the verb "to do" when talking about 
jobs, work and other, more general, everyday tasks.

You need to do more exercise!
You did the dishes last night, so it's my turn.
Have you done your homework?

Have you done the dishes?

to make
I've made dinner for us.

I want to make a birthday cake for Laura.
We use "make" for constructing or preparing food or drinks.

We mainly use "to make" when talking about things 
that we construct or create, and when we are talking 
about meals and drinks that we prepare (however, 
sometimes we can also use "to do" colloquially 
when talking about food).

Let's make a cake.
I made a cup of tea.
He has made a mess.
I have made a mess in this room!

Have you done... the dishes?
Have you made... some tea?

I've made you a coffee.
When preparing a drink, we usually use "make".

Could you do me a favour?

He's made pasta for lunch.
Have you done the dishes?
They make the best bread.

Saeed: Hey! How are you doing?

Nancy: I'm so behind! I haven't done the laundry 
or the cleaning. I've just made the bed!

Saeed: It's midday! What did you do all morning?

Nancy: Don't ask! Charles made a mess in the bathroom. 
I have to clean it and then make his lunch.

Saeed: OK. I haven't done the shopping yet 
as I just got to the supermarket. What do we need?

Nancy: I'll send you a list. 
What do you want for dinner?

Saeed: I've already made us peri peri chicken with 
rice. It's in the fridge. I just need to do a salad.

Nancy: Can't wait! See you tonight.

2. Phrasal verbs for house tasks
Explore some phrasal verbs for house chores

to wash up
She washed up yesterday. It's your turn today.
I can wash up tonight.

We only ever use “to wash up" in a cleaning context, 
in the sense of washing the dishes / cutlery / pots 
after a meal.

We can also use the -ing form of the verb as a noun 
("the washing up") and it is quite common to say, for 
example, "He's done the washing up".

Could you wash up tonight?
He's done the washing up.

I can do the... washing up.
I can wash... up in the kitchen.

to clean up
We've already cleaned up the kitchen.

Can you clean up the kitchen?
"clean up" means to completely clean something.

to tidy up
Please tidy up your bedroom. It's a mess!

Did you tidy up the bedroom?
We add "up" to create "tidy up" and "clean up", 
meaning to do something completely.

These phrasal verbs contain the word "up" which gives 
the meaning of making something completely clean.

to tidy up – to organise
Tidy up your bed.

to clean up – to remove dirt
Clean up the bathroom.

to wash up – to clean with water
Wash the dishes up.

This storage room is messy. You didn't tidy it up.

to put away
I'll wash the plates if you put them away.

Have you already put the glasses away?
We can say "to put away" + object or "to put" + object + "away".

to throw away
Throw away these vegetables.
Don't throw away the receipt.

to take out the rubbish
Can you take out the rubbish?
We use "take out" with rubbish as we usually leave 
it outside of the house to be taken away.

to put... away
to clean... up

to tidy... up
to take... out
to throw... away

You cooked dinner, so we can clean up the kitchen.

3. Reading instructions
Learn how to follow instructions

Take out the rubbish.
The sentence that begins with a verb ("take") is an instruction.

Wash the dirty dishes.
Instructions usually begin with a verb.

Do the laundry at the weekend.

Dear Brad, Jodie and Simon,

While your dad and I are away for the week, 
please don't make a mess!

Every day, make your beds, take out the rubbish 
and recycling, and feed the dog. 
You don't need to buy groceries because 
I've made enough food for the next 7 days. 
Just heat it up for dinner or when you get hungry.

After dinner, put the dirty dishes in the dishwasher. 
In the morning, empty it and put away the clean dishes. 
Remember to lock the door at night before you go to bed.

On Saturday or Sunday, do the laundry and vacuum the floor.

Remember, please all take turns to do the chores. 🥰

Love you lots!
Mum and dad x

Every day, make your beds, take out the rubbish 
and recycling, and feed the dog.

Their parents will be away for a week and 
they are told not to make a mess.

Heat up the food.
Their mum has already made food for the week, 
so they just need to heat it up.

Just heat the food up for dinner.
You can also say: "heat up the food".

After dinner, put the dirty dishes in the dishwasher.
A dishwasher washes dishes, so you simply need 
to put the dishes inside the machine.

In the morning, empty the dishwasher and put away the clean dishes.
Clean dishes are usually emptied from the dishwasher 
and stored somewhere ("to put away").

They need to keep the door closed (with a key) at night.
The mum starts with "remember to", suggesting 
that they are familiar with this task.

Vacuum the floor at the weekend.

Feed the dog... every day.
Do the laundry... at the weekend.
Lock the door... at night.

She wants all three of them to take turns.
The phrase "to take turns" means for each person to do 
the same activity in turn.

4. Doing chores
Watch a video about chores

Episode 6 - Are you doing your chores?

George:
Hi Leo! How are you? 
Do you feel like doing something this week? George, X
Leo:
Hi George! I am great, thanks. 
Would you like to go for a picnic with me? X

To invite someone to do something, we can ask: 
"Do you feel like" + "-ing"…?

Would you like to go for a picnic with me?
A polite way to invite someone is to ask: 
"Would you like" + "to" + verb?

People often put a “kiss”, represented by the letter 
x, at the end of letters, emails and text messages to 
friends and family. Text messages are commonly known 
as “texts” in English.

Hey! Let me know if you're free for dinner. x
I had fun today! Hope to see you again soon! xxx

Leo wrote one kiss at the end of his text to Georgina.
Leo put one kiss "x" instead of three kisses "xxx" 
to hide his feelings for her.

Episode 6 - Are you doing your chores?

Janet:
Hello, everybody. Are you doing your chores? 
See you at 6:00.

Oscar:
Chores?

Leo:
On the table! List of chores for Leo and Oscar. 
Number 1: Wash the dirty dishes.

Janet:
Number 2: Clean the kitchen.

Leo:
Oscar, this is a very long list!

Oscar:
We only have 20 minutes!

They were relaxing when Janet reminded them 
they had to do the chores today.

chores
We need to do the chores in 20 minutes.

We usually say "on" or "under" + the table.

Wash the dishes.
Wash the dirty dishes.
Vacuum the bedroom.
Clean the bathroom.
Clean the bathroom and kitchen.
Dust the table.
Use a duster to dust the table.
A duster is a cloth or a feather brush used 
for removing dust from surfaces.

Put the dirty washing in the washing machine.
The chores are done. The house is completely clean and tidy.

5. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

She says "I always put away my books", 
which means returning them to their proper place.

Can you help me clean up the kitchen?
The phrase "to clean up" means to tidy a place 
by removing dirt, clutter or unwanted items.

Please wash up the dishes.
You need to clean up the bathroom.

Let's tidy up the house before the guests arrive.
We can use "tidy up" to describe rearranging 
and cleaning items in the house.

Please throw away your rubbish.
The phrase "to throw away" means to dispose of 
something that is no longer needed or wanted.

Don't throw away his dinner.
Can you vacuum the carpets?
I vacuum the living room every week.
































































































































































































