Chapter 22: Directions

1. Prepositions of place and movement
Learn prepositions of place

down the street
The bakery is just down the street.

There's a pharmacy down the street.
We use "down the street" to say that a location is 
on the same street or not very far away.

Her house is not very far away from the local church.
Here, "down the street" implies the church is 
somewhere along the same street or nearby.

around the corner
I live around the corner from the park.
The stadium is around the corner.

We use "around the corner" to say that a location is 
very close by, typically just out of sight.

He says "around the corner", which implies 
their hotel is very close.

on the way to
There's a shopping centre on the way to my friend's house.

There's a new café on the way to the university.
We can use "on the way to" to talk about a place 
we pass whilst travelling to another location.

She passes a post office whilst travelling to work.
Here, "on the way to" means she passes the post office 
whilst travelling to work.

on the other side
The train station is on the other side of the bridge.

The museum is on the other side of the park.
We use "on the other side" to describe a location 
that is across from a place.

in a neighbourhood
I live in a beautiful neighbourhood.

Do you live in a nice neighbourhood?
We can use "in" for spaces we can physically be inside of.

at a bus stop
I'll meet you at the bus stop.
Shall we meet at the bus stop?
We can use "at" for a specific point (like a "bus stop").

"in", "on" or "at"?

We can use the prepositions "in", "on" and "at" 
to talk about the position or location of one thing 
relative to another. Here are some general rules.

in (inside a space)
in a gallery

on (a surface or street)
on Oxford Street

at (a specific point)
at a bus stop

in - inside a space
on - a surface and street
at - a specific point
We can use "in", "on" and "at" to talk about 
the position of something.

The supermarket is just down the street from my apartment.
The post office is right around the corner.
We can also say "round the corner".

I always get a coffee on the way to work.
Here, "on the way to" means he gets a coffee 
on his journey to work.

I'll get breakfast on the way to work.

We use "on the way to" + a place (like "work").

a phrase used for two places that are across from each other.
The pharmacy is on the other side of the shopping centre.

Here, we use "on the other side" to talk about two 
places that are across from each other.

My house is on the other side of the neighbourhood.

I live in a beautiful neighbourhood.
Here, we use "in" for a space we can physically be inside of.

My parents live on Queen Street.
I'll meet you at the entrance of the stadium.

2. Giving directions
Give directions in your neighbourhood

through
I run through the park every morning.

We can't go through the park. We'll have to go around it.
We can use "through" to describe going into a place 
and coming out the other side.

Can we drive through the town square?

opposite
The restaurant is opposite the hotel.
My house is opposite the school.
The bus stop is opposite the post office.

We can use "opposite" to describe something 
directly facing or across from something else.

to go past
Walk past the church and you'll see the library.

Go past the bakery and the café is on your left.

We can use "past" to indicate movement beyond a certain point.

beside
The bank is beside a hotel.
The bus stop is right beside the bank.

"Beside" or "next to"?
The prepositions "beside" and "next to" both mean 
by the side of someone or something. 
The only difference is when we use each term.

more formal
The bus stop is beside the bank.

less formal
The bus stop is next to the bank.

The pharmacy is next to the bakery.
The pharmacy is beside the bakery.

along the road
Drive along the main road until you see the supermarket.

Drive along the road until you reach the traffic lights.
Here, "along" means moving from one end of the road 
towards the other end.

a hotel receptionist and a guest talking 
through a map of the area and make notes

Receptionist: Good morning. How can I help you today?

Guest: Hi! I'm new to this area. 
Could you help me understand this map?

Receptionist: Of course! Now, 
if you walk through the park right outside our hotel, 
you'll reach the town centre.

Guest: Oh, I see. And where's the nearest bank?

Receptionist: The bank is just past the bakery. 
It's the big white building.

Guest: Got it. And the library?

Receptionist: The library is opposite the supermarket. 
You can't miss it!

Guest: Perfect. Is there a nice place to walk?

Receptionist: 
Yes, I recommend walking along the river. 
It's very peaceful.

Guest: Sounds lovely. And where can I get some coffee?

Receptionist: There's a café beside the bookstore, 
just two minutes from here.

Guest: Thank you so much for your help.

The guest can reach the town centre by walking 
from one end of the park to the other.
Here, "through" means moving from one end of the park to the other.

Here, "past" means he will find the bank somewhere 
after the bakery.

3. Giving recommendations
Recommend things to do in your area

to find
I found a nice little deli round the corner.
We found this restaurant online.

The past form of "to find" is "found".

to come across
I've come across a few nice bakeries here.

Have you come across any nice places to eat here?
Here, "to come across" means to find something by chance.

He says "came across", which means he found the shops by chance.

Sometimes we come across something by chance; 
sometimes an especially nice place is not very-well known. 
We can call these places "finds" or "hidden gems".

What a great find!
This restaurant is one of Edinburgh's hidden gems.
This lake is a great find! It’s such a hidden gem.

We can say a "find" to mean a place is special, 
often when we found it by accident.

to discover
I discovered a beautiful little square in the old town.
I discovered a great new restaurant nearby.

The verb "to discover" means to find or 
learn something, typically for the first time.

to recommend
My neighbour recommended it to me.
What restaurants would you recommend?

We can use "to recommend" to tell someone 
that something is good or useful.

to discover - to find or learn something for the first time
to recommend - to tell somebody that something is good or useful

Here, "to recommend" means that the neighbour told him 
about a place he thinks is good.

to try
Have you tried that new restaurant yet?
I think you should try our local cheese and wine.

Here, we use "to try" to mean testing something to see 
if it is good.

to avoid
You should avoid the canal at night.
You should avoid this area at night.

Here, "to avoid" means to keep away from something.

Hi Ivan,
I've found so many interesting places since I moved to Cardiff. 
Last week, I came across a hidden gem in the park 
called The Secret Café. 
I would definitely recommend the food 
as it's made using local Welsh ingredients.

I also discovered a dog-friendly pub near the river. 
I think we should go with your dog Gryff when you visit. 
However, my neighbours said we should avoid walking 
by the river at night because it can be a bit dangerous.

When you visit, we need to try something 
called laverbread, a local delicacy made from seaweed!

Looking forward to seeing you soon.
Bethan

Bethan discovered the café by chance 
("she came across the café").

Bethan says they need to try laverbread.

to find
to come across
to discover
to recommend
to try
to avoid

4. Taking an exam
Watch a video about an English exam

Watch the first part of the video. 
How do Leo and Oscar handle their work emergency?

Episode 10 - Good luck!

Oscar:
What time is your exam?

Leo:
Eleven o'clock. I worry.

Restaurant manager:
Boys, listen. 
The chef is ill. You are on your own today.

Oscar:
What are we going to do? I can't cook.

Leo:
Oscar, I can do this. I can cook. 
Right, look in the fridge. What can we prepare?

Oscar:
Yes.

Leo:
What is there?

Oscar:
Potatoes, eggs, tomatoes.

Leo:
Are there any mushrooms?

Oscar:
There aren't any.

Leo:
It doesn't matter. Is there some oil?

Oscar:
Yes, there's some oil here.

Leo:
Are there frying pans?

Oscar:
Here's a frying pan.

Leo:
Right, get the potatoes and let's do this!

Leo:
Well done! I have to go to my exam.

Oscar:
Leo, good luck! I hope you pass.

Leo:
So do I.

Restaurant manager:
You did well today. I like people who work hard. 
I want to give you a new job. 
A promotion. If you pass your exam, of course.

Leo:
Is it countable or uncountable?

Georgina (voiceover):
Countable words can be counted but uncountable words cannot.

Leo:
Countable. I'm so happy, Anna! We passed!

Leo:
Dear Mum,

I hope you are well and dad, and Maria, and Lucas, and the cat.

Today, I passed my important exam, and 
tonight we are going to a costume party.

I am very well here in England. I enjoy my job. 
My English gets better everyday.

I miss you all, but I am very happy here. 
I have some very very nice friends.

Everything is great.
Love from Leo.


The chef is ill, so Oscar and Leo have to work 
in the kitchen and cook.

We use "there is some..." with uncountable nouns, and 
we use "there are some..." with countable nouns 
in their plural form.

We use "any" in questions and negative statements. 
Check out these examples:

Countable noun, plural
There are some bananas.
There aren't any bananas.
Are there any bananas?

Uncountable noun
There is some milk.
There isn't any milk.
Is there any milk?

Are there any mushrooms?
We use "are" for plural countable nouns and "any" 
for questions and negative statements.

There are...some potatoes, eggs and tomatoes.
There aren't...any mushrooms.
There is...some oil.

Are there any frying pans?

A promotion is a job of a higher level or 
more responsibility in the company.

We say "good luck" to wish for a good outcome 
for an important event like an exam.

We usually begin an informal letter with "dear" 
(their name) and end it with "from" (your name).

Although he misses his family, 
Leo is happy in England and has made friends.

5. Developing fluency
Talk about your neighbourhood

She gets bored because there are no fun activities 
in her town.
It can be a bit too quiet because there isn't much 
to do for fun.

The city centre can get very crowded but I love it!
The word "crowded" in this case means busy with people.

There's a deli just down the road from my house.
We usually use "down the road" to mean 
that something is on the same road or street.

There's a really good supermarket just down the road 
from my apartment.
My local newsagent's has been open for 40 years.

In the evenings, the coffee shop gets crowded.

Around the corner from my house is a really nice 
Turkish coffee shop.

My house is around...the corner.
The café is down..the road..

There's a 24-hour gym around the corner.
Avoid going in the evening because it can get crowded.

I think everyone should visit the local Swedish bakery.

We use the modal verb "should" to give a recommendation.

6. Review
A quick review of recent lessons

We found a great house next to the school and 
right opposite a park!

Simon wants to leave the city because 
it's dangerous and crowded.

I took a bus through the city the other day.

We discovered some great restaurants just down 
the road from us. We went yesterday and sat outside. 
It was lovely.

the opposite of "inside". - outside

So nice. Yeah, I took a bus through the city 
the other day, and I thought, "Maybe I should move too!"

Anthony's clothes are very casual.
Julia can we go shopping? 
I need some smart clothes for work, 
but that stuff doesn't really suit me. 
I need your help!

I need to remember to return some jeans, too.
It will be nice to spend some time together!
Anthony is looking forward to spending time with Julia.

Well, you can always come and say "hello", anytime!
The opposite of "never". - always

Anthony needs nicer clothes but he doesn't think 
they look good him.

I'm going to go into town tomorrow .
Anthony's colleagues make comments about how casually he dresses.

I think everyone should visit the local Swedish bakery.

The bus stop is right beside the bank




































































































































