Chapter 3: Life events
1. Describing life events
Talk about your life story

to be born
I was born in Austin, Texas.

I was born in Kraków in Poland in 1985.
We use "was" / "were" + "born" to talk about 
when or where we were born.

to grow up
I grew up in Jamaica.

I grew up in Portland, Oregon.
When we talk about ourselves we say "I grew up in", 
which is the past tense of "to grow up".

I was born in Nigeria. I grew up in New Zealand.
She was born in one country but then grew up 
in another country.

To talk about events in the past we use verbs like 
"to be born" and "to grow up".

We use the past forms "was" or "were" with "born", 
and the past form "grew up".

I was born in 2003.
They were born in France.
We grew up in London.

I was born in Portsmouth but I grew up in the south of France.

I grew up in Spain.
To say where we grew up, we use the structure 
"to grow up" + "in" + place.

to move
We moved to Bermuda to be closer to my grandparents.

My grandparents moved to Boston in 1950.
We know this is in the past ("moved") because 
they added when ("in 1950"), so we add a "d".

I was born in England.
She grew up in America.
We moved to Brasil.

to live
I lived in London as a student in 2008.

I lived in London as a student in 2008.
We know this is in the past ("lived") 
because they added when ("in 2008"), so we add a "d".

We lived in Seattle in 1998 but then we moved 
to Portland after five years.

I grew up in Chicago.
To say where we grew up, we use the structure 
"to grow up" + "in" + place.

I moved to Belfast in 2016.
The past form of "to move" is "moved" (with a "d").

My mum was born in 1975 in Athens.

2.Meeting partners
Talk about how and when you met your partner

to meet
I met him at a party.

Where did you first meet?
We can use "to meet" to refer to a first introduction 
or encounter with someone.

to date
We dated for two months in high school.

They started to date last year.
We can use "to date" to mean to be 
in a romantic relationship with someone.

She says: "I'm not dating anyone at the moment."
She's not in a romantic relationship at the moment.

Mathew and David are seeing each other.
"to see someone" means to be in 
a romantic relationship with someone.

"to date" or "to see someone"?
We can use "to date" and "to see someone" to mean to be 
in a romantic relationship. In some cultures and contexts, 
there may be a slight difference in meaning.

to date

might be seen as a more casual form of getting to know someone

to see someone
might imply a deeper level of commitment

a couple
They became a couple after their third date.

It's their anniversary; they've been a couple for one year.
A "couple" refers to two people who are involved 
in a romantic relationship with each other.

Modern relationships
Not all romantic relationships fit neatly 
into traditional categories. 
Here are some different terms to refer to modern romantic relationships.

a situationship
an undefined romantic bond, somewhere 
between friendship and a committed relationship

an open relationship
an agreement that partners can have additional 
romantic relationships with other people

Sofia and Isabella are in a romantic relationship.

3. Indicating possession
Express possession with 's

It was my cousin's birthday yesterday.

My cousins' birthdays are in December.
Here, the noun is plural, so we add an apostrophe (') 
after the "s" ("cousins'").

That's my uncle's car.

My uncle's car is fast.
Here, we need to use an apostrophe (') + "s" ('s) 
to show that the car belongs to his uncle.

Possession with singular nouns

We can use an apostrophe + "s" ('s) to indicate possession 
when a noun belongs to someone or something else.

Sentence
Her aunt's car is red.
His sister's bag is on the floor.
Tim's homework is difficult.

Meaning
The car belongs to her aunt.
The bag belongs to his sister.
The homework belongs to Tim.

Henry's dog is very friendly.
The dog belongs to Henry.

His sister's homework is difficult.
It's my cousin's birthday today.

Possession with plural nouns

For plural nouns ending in "s" ("parents"), we add an apostrophe (') after the "s" ("parents'").

For plural nouns that don't end in "s" ("children"), we 
simply add 's to the end of the word ("children's").

plural nouns ending in "s"
girls' school
parents' evening

plural nouns that do not end in "s"
children's books
men's toilets

plural nouns ending in "s" - girls', parents', boys'
plural nouns that don't end in "s" - children's, women's, men's

Elisa studies at the girls' school.
He's talking about a school for many girls ("girls"), 
so we add an apostrophe after the "s".

My parents' anniversary is next week.
"parents" is a plural noun, so we add an apostrophe (') 
at the end to indicate possession.

The boys' football team is good.
The children's park is nearby.
The women's book club meets monthly.
The men's shoes are on sale.

4. Using 's to talk about places
More ways to express possession with 's

the doctor's
I'm going to the doctor's at 3pm.

My brother is waiting at the doctor's.
Here, we need to use 's at the end of a singular noun 
("doctor") to express possession.

the dentist's
I hate going to the dentist's.

I have an appointment at the dentist's at 9 a.m.
We also use the possessive form in "at the dentist's" 
because the place is owned by the dentist.

Possession and places
We can show possession for places by adding 's to the end 
of singular nouns (e.g. "dentist's").

We can use 's to show that a place belongs to or 
is associated with a profession.

My aunt is going to the dentist's today.
The waiting room at the doctor's is full.

My brother is going to the dentist's today.
She has a check-up at the dentist's next week.
I'm taking my uncle to the doctor's today.

at Agata's
I'm going for dinner at Agata's tonight.

Possession and people's names

With people's names, we can use 's to indicate that a 
place belongs to or is associated with that person.

Let's meet at John's café after work.
The party is at Sara's flat on Saturday.

My friend and I are going to a party at Agata's tonight.
I'm studying at John's this evening.

Sara's bakery sells the best cakes.

at my grandparents'
We're having dinner at my grandparents' tonight.

Places and plural nouns

With plural nouns ending in "s" (like "grandparents"), 
we can add an apostrophe (') to indicate that a place 
belongs to or is associated with more than one person.

I'll stay at my grandparents' this weekend.
There's a pool at my cousins'.

You can find children's books on the 4th floor.

Our family photos are in my parents' attic.(ထပ်ခိုး)
We're having a movie night at my cousins' this Friday.

5. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

Their aunt's name is Julia. She is their mother's sister.
My sister's name is Elke and she's married.
My cousins' dog is called Travis Barker.
Three of my nieces' names begin with a V.

singular nouns - nephew's, aunt's, granddad's
plural nouns - uncles', nieces', grandchildren's

My uncle's children's names are Richard, Hayley and Charles.
What's your uncle's name?







































































































































































































