Chapter 29: Advice

1. Making suggestions
Help struggling friends

Have you thought about...
Have you thought about quitting smoking?
Have you thought about eating more greens?

"Have you thought about...?" is a polite way 
to start a suggestion.

Have you tried...
Have you tried talking to your manager about it?
Have you tried drinking less coffee?

Here, we need to use the past form of "to try" ("tried").

We can use "Have you tried...?" to provide 
a possible solution to a problem.

Why don't you...
Why don't you cut back on sugar?
Why don't you cut back on meat?
Why don't you take a holiday?

Maybe you should...
Maybe you should try yoga.

Have you tried eating more vitamins?
Maybe you should try yoga.

"Have you tried...?" and "Maybe you should..." 
are both ways to make a suggestion.

Have you thought about talking to Marcus?
Have you thought about seeing a doctor?
Have you tried going to the gym?
Have you tried restarting your computer?
Why don't you take a break?
Why don't you wear your new shoes to the party?
Maybe you should go to bed earlier tonight.
Maybe you should drink more water during the day.

VOCABULARY
Have you thought about...
Have you tried...
Why don't you...
Maybe you should...

2. Giving advice
Give and understand health advice

Will: 
Hi Ruth, do you have any recommendations for a sore throat?

Ruth: Have you tried drinking warm tea with honey?

Will: No, I haven't. I'll have to try that.

Ruth: 
Also, have you thought about taking any medication?

Will: 
No, I want to avoid taking medication if I can.

Ruth: Why don't you consider seeing a doctor?

Will: I might if my throat is still sore next week.

Ruth: And maybe you should take a sick day.

Will: 
Good idea, I could spend time resting. 
Thanks for all your suggestions.

Will says "Do you have any recommendations?", 
which means he's asking for suggestions.
Here, "recommendations" refers to suggestions 
to solve a health issue.

Have you tried drinking warm tea with honey?
Have you thought about taking any medication?
Why don't you consider seeing a doctor?
Maybe you should take a sick day.

3. The Imperative
Give instructions using the imperative

Get plenty of rest.
Get plenty of rest before your exam tomorrow.

Here, we form an imperative using the base 
form of the verb ("get").

Giving advice
We can use an imperative to give clear, 
straightforward advice.

To form an imperative, we simply use the base 
form of the verb, without "to" (like "get"). 
We typically don't include a subject because it's 
usually understood to be "you".

Get plenty of rest.
Drink lots of water.
Eat well and see a doctor.

Sit down! Dinner is ready.
We can use an imperative (like "sit down") to give a command.

Sit down and do your homework.
Here, the imperatives "sit down" and "do"
 are used to give direct commands.

There's a car coming, watch out!
Watch out, that box is really heavy.

We can use the imperative "watch out" to give a warning.

Giving an order or a warning
We can use an imperative (like "sit down") 
to give an order, usually in situations where it's 
necessary or expected that someone follows instructions.

We can use the imperative "watch out" to give 
a warning, typically when we want to alert someone 
urgently to a potential danger or risk.

Sit down and wait for your turn. (order)
Watch out, the floor just got cleaned. (warning)

Sit down and listen carefully. - order
Watch out, the soup is very hot. - warning

Please give up your seat for elderly people.
We can use "please" with an imperative ("give up") 
to sound more polite.

Sounding less direct
We try to use the imperative carefully in English 
as it is a very direct form. We can use words such 
as "just" or "please" to make a request sound less direct.

Just wait a minute.
Please be quiet.
Please don't be late.

We can use words like "just" or "please" 
to make an imperative sound less direct.

Get plenty of rest.
We can use an imperative (like "get plenty of 
rest") to give clear advice.

Get some sleep.

Sit down and tell me about your day.

We form an imperative using the base form of the verb ("sit down").

Please stop talking.
Watch out, there's a bee near you!
Watch out for the wet paint over there.
Please give up your seat for elderly people.
Please|Just wait a moment.

VOCABULARY
Get plenty of rest.
Sit down! Dinner is ready.
There's a car coming, watch out!
Please give up your seat for elderly people.

4. Reading online advice
Read advice in an online discussion board

Should I move to another city to live with my girlfriend?

Gaz Kane @Gaz_the_great says:

I work in Toronto at a bank. 
I really enjoy my job, but my girlfriend is moving 
to New York in September to study. 
I'm going to miss her a lot! 
I don't want to break up with her. 
Should I move to New York to be with her? 
Is it easy to get a job?

Should Gaz move to New York with his girlfriend 
who will study at university?

Should I move to another city to be with my girlfriend?

👨🏽‍🦱 Michael B. Jansen says:
@Gaz the Great You don't have to leave Toronto 
because it's not far from New York. 
Why don't you just go by train and 
visit her every weekend?

👩🏼‍🦱 Daisy Lee says:
@Michael B Jansen I think Gaz wants to live with 
his girlfriend, but what does she want? 
I think he needs to talk to her and ask her.

🧔🏻 James King says:
Maybe you should visit New York first and 
see what the city is like. 
You can earn a lot of money as a banker, 
but have you thought about saving money before you move? 
New York is more expensive and crowded than Toronto!

Michael says that Toronto is close to New York 
and that Gaz could visit his girlfriend by train.

Gaz Kane says:
@Daisy Lee My girlfriend wants me to move 
to New York with her, but I really like my job 
at the bank. However, 
I heard they have an office in New York, too.

Daisy Lee says:
@Gaz_the_great Have you thought about working 
in their New York office? I suggest you contact 
them to find out if you can do that.

5. Verb patterns with "-ing"
Learn verb patterns with "-ing"

Have you tried drinking more water?
Have you tried seeing a doctor?

The phrase "Have you tried...?" is often followed 
by an "-ing" form ("seeing").

Other patterns with "-ing"
Some verbs like "try", "consider", "avoid" and 
"suggest", as well as prepositions like "about", 
typically require the following verb to be an 
"-ing" form.

Have you tried talking to him?
You should consider eating more vegetables.
Avoid going to bed too late.
I suggest visiting the museum.
Have you thought about seeing a doctor?
You should consider taking the bus instead of walking.

You should consider taking a short break.
Avoid eating too much sugar.
Avoid going to that neighbourhood at night.
You should avoid going to bed too late.
I suggest starting your project early.
I suggest starting with a plan.
Have you thought about going abroad?
Have you thought about learning how to cook?

The preposition "about" is often followed by 
an "-ing" form ("learning").

Have you thought about learning how to swim?

5. Developing fluency
Give advice to someone

We can ask "have you thought about…?" as a way 
to advise someone.

Why don't you try taking vitamins?
Why don't you use less oil?
Have you thought about joining a gym?
Have you tried eating less sugar for a couple of weeks?
Have you tried preparing meals for the week?
Have you thought about taking medicine for your headache?
My doctor suggests that I avoid alcohol 
to control my blood pressure.
You should drink more water to help you recover.

Maybe you should take vitamin C tablets.
Why don't you...join a yoga class?
Have you tried...reducing sugar?
Maybe you...should sleep more.
Have you thought about walking to work?
Why don't you try going to sleep earlier?
I suggest you exercise for 30 minutes a day.

Have you tried eating less sugar for a couple of weeks?
Why don't you try going to sleep earlier?
Maybe you should drink more water during the day.
Maybe you should go to bed earlier tonight.

I suggest starting with a plan.







































































































































































































