Chapter 9: Education
1.Talking about education
Describe your experience in education

to learn
Where did you learn Italian?

I learned how to code in Java.
"to learn" is a regular verb so we add "ed" to make the past form, "learned".

We learned... a lot about marketing.
We studied...in New York for 3 months.

We use "to learn" with "about" or "how to" and "to study + in + place.

to go to school
I went to school in Berlin.

to go to college
After leaving school, I want to go to college.

Danielle went to college in Sheffield.

to go to university
When I was 30, I finally went to university.

We moved to Wales when I was 16. I was too old to go to school, 
but too young to go to university, so I went to college for two years.

The education system in the UK differs from the US and other parts of the world.

Read the information below to find out when you go to school, "college" and university in these two countries. 🇬🇧🇺🇸

You go to school in the UK from the age of five until 16. Americans go to school until they are 18.

"College" in the UK is a separate institute you go to after school for two years. In the US, "college" is another word for university.

In the US and the UK, you go to university from the age of 18.

I went to university in Sydney to study geography.

I  studied computer science and physics in college.

I went to a boarding school and learned how to be more independent.

I went to school in Italy and learned how to speak Italian.

2. Past simple questions and negation
Form questions and negative sentences in the past simple

Did you go to university?
Did Sarah study history at college?

This is a past simple question.

To make a question in the past simple, we can start with the word "did" (the past form of "to do").

As this verb is in the past, the verb after "did" stays in the base form ("take", "learn").

Did we take our exams in March?
Did she learn French at school?
Did you pass?
Did I leave my phone at the house?

Did you study German in school?
Did you go to university?
Did you pass your exam?
Did we move to New Zealand in 2006 or 2008?
He did not study French at university.

To form negative sentences in the past simple we need the words "did" and "not". 
We use this structure: person / thing + "did not" / "didn't" + verb (base form).

Remember: We do not use the past simple form of the main verb in the sentence. 
We keep the base form.

I did not take chemistry at school.
He didn't learn how to swim.

I  didn't pass the exam because it was very difficult.
We did not go to school together

Chad didn't pass his driving test first time.
Did you learn to drive when you were 16?
Did you finish that book?
He did not go to university.
When I went to New York, I didn't visit the Bronx Zoo.
My children didn't go to the same school.
Did she take English at school?
I did not get a car until I was 21.
We didn't meet at university.
I didn't work|did not work yesterday.

3. Asking open questions in the past
Use question words in the past simple

When did you finish school?
When did they finish school?
We can add "when" before "did" to find out the time someone did something.

When did she meet her husband?
What did you say?

Past simple: questions using question words
If you want more information than simply "yes" and "no", 
you need to ask an open question. In the past simple, 
they start with a question word before "did".

What did you do yesterday? (action)
When did she go home? (time)
Who did she ask for help? (person)
Why did you stop singing? (reason)
Where did you study? (place)

Where did you study French?
This question requires more information than "yes" 
or "no", as it asks about the place ("where").

place - Where did he work?
time - When did I start the game?
action - What did you say to me?

Where did you go to university?
Did you break my television?

This is an open question so you need to give 
more information than just "yes" or "no".

This question only requires a "yes" or "no" answer, so is a closed question.

a closed question - Did you work in London?
an open question - Where did she work?

What did you learn at school today?
Who did you pay to clean your house?
When did Brendan start his new diet?
Where did you put the TV remote?
How did you learn to paint?
How did she fix the cupboard?

We can also use the question word "how" 
at the beginning of the sentence to ask the manner 
in which someone did a past action. 
Have a look at the examples below.

How did you do that?
How did she get home last night?
How did the date go last night?
What did you have for dinner last night?
Where did Sian go to university?
Why didn't you pass your exam?
Why did she come home early?
When did they finish building the house?
When did she meet her husband?
Who did you go to Rome with last week?
Who did Jason hire after Alan left?
How did your dad bake this pie without an oven?
How did you do your hair like that?

3. Studying
Talk about our past and present studies

to understand
Did you understand the article?

I learned a lot in my Japanese lesson. 
I was able to understand everything my teacher said.

He said he understood his teacher and 
learned a lot in his Japanese lesson.

I didn't understand what the waiter asked me.

We use "to understand" when we become aware of something (e.g. comprehending the meaning of a word).

It's different from words like "to learn", 
where we gain knowledge, and "to study" where 
we go through the process of learning something.

Do you understand what I'm saying?
What did you learn in your maths lesson?
Did you study hard for the exam?

Do you understand what... I am saying?
What did you learn in... your maths lesson?
Did you study... hard for the exam?

a lesson
What lessons did you have in school today?

We went to class on Saturday. We had a lesson on pronunciation.

Here's a tip!
In the UK 🇬🇧, "a lesson" refers to what students learn. 
It is different to "a class", which is a group of 
students that attend a lesson. 
In the US 🇺🇸, it's more common to hear people 
refer to "a lesson" as "a class".

We usually say "to have a lesson" and 
"to go to a class" or "to attend a class".

We had a few classes together last year.

I learned a lot in today's art lesson.
We usually use "to learn" or "to study" in a lesson or class.

homework
Did you do your homework?

She did her homework before playing video games.
"homework" refers to studying at home or after class.

to revise
We were revising for the language test on Friday.

I have to revise for an exam.
We use "to revise" (to revise) or "to study" (to 
study) for an exam, which means to prepare.

Did you do... your homework?
I didn't revise... for the exam.
We learned a lot in...today's class.

Danny understood more about the Persian empire 
after he studied ancient history at university.

I was very busy at the office I couldn't study|revise for my test.

4. Reading about graduate life
Read about the journey from student to employment

Read about Gina's first job after she graduated.
I got a job as a call centre agent. 
This was my first job after I graduated.

The job was boring. 
I worked 60 hours a week but I didn't earn much money. 
I quit after five months.

Gina started working after she finished studying at university.
I got a job as a call centre agent.

to graduate
I graduated from university in 2018.

What did you do after you graduated?
We use "to graduate" when we have completed 
an academic course (e.g. a university degree).

I didn't earn much money. I quit after five months.
After "didn't" we use the base form "earn". 
"Quit" is the same in the present and past.

I studied psychology but I wanted to work as a banker, 
so I took an exam to learn about finance. 
It was very hard, but I passed!

After, I got a job at an investment bank in London. 
I've been at this company for six years.

Zeyu chose a different career from what he studied.

I wanted to work as a banker, so I took an exam 
to learn about finance.
We use "to work as" + job title or "to work at" + company / place.

I got a job at a pizza place.
I worked as a taxi driver.

I got a job at an investment bank in London. 
I've been at this company for six years.

I worked at a café while I was studying. 
After I graduated, I was at the same job.

After two years, I quit to go travelling 
and I became a language teacher in Vietnam.

5. Developing fluency
Practise talking about studies

I went to school in Ireland.
I went to university in 2018 and studied History. 
I learned a lot about my country's past

I went...to university in 2010.
I studied... Chemistry at university.
I passed... an exam in Biology.

I went to university in Melbourne, Australia in 2014. 
I studied Chemistry, but it was very difficult and 
I almost failed my exams! 😬

I loved being a university student because 
I made so many friends. 
I lived in a small apartment with five male students. 
I got a job while I was studying.

I really miss those days.

The past form of "to go" is "went".

He says, "I almost failed" which means he passed with a low grade.

Did you break my television?
Did she take English at school?
We didn't meet at university.
Did you finish that book?
Where did Sian go to university?
What did you have for dinner last night?
Who did Jason hire after Alan left?
Why did she come home early?



































































































































































































