Chapter 17: Food and drink
1. Eating out
Have conversations in a restaurant

What can I get you?
Waiting staff ask this question when taking the customer's food order.
You might also hear, "Can I take your order?" or "How can I help?"

Waiters, baristas and other food service staff might 
ask you these questions when they greet you.

When they do, be ready to give them your order! 😊

Are you ready to order?
What can I get you?
Can I help you?

We're ready to order.
I need more time to decide.

I need more time... to decide.
I'm ready...to order now.
We usually use "to need time to decide" 
if we are not ready to order yet.

It is common to use modal verbs like "can", "could" 
and "may" when ordering food or making requests as 
it's more polite.

To be even more polite, you can add "please". 😉
Could you bring us some more water?
May I have the bill, please?
Can we order some dessert?

Can I have some mustard, please?
Can I have the steak pie with chips, please?

the bill
Can I have the bill, please.

"a bill" is the total amount of money a customer needs 
to pay for the food and services provided.

a tip
Shall we leave a tip?
a bill" is money you owe the restaurant, 
but "a tip" is extra money you give to the server.

a service charge
A service charge is an extra cost added to your bill 
to pay for hotel staff.

In some countries, you are expected to tip your 
waiters a certain percentage at the end of your meal. 
In other places, a service charge may be added to your check.

We can use the word "tip" as both a verb and a noun. 
See the examples below!

I tip the waiter.
Shall we leave a tip?
The service charge is added to the bill.

Did you leave a tip? No, we don't have to. 
We've already paid the service charge.

2. Booking a table
Practise listening

Do you have a reservation?
Can I make a reservation?

"reservation" is the noun form of "to reserve" 
(to keep something in your name).

to book a table
I've booked a table under the name Daniel.

Can I book a table for two?
We use "to book a table" to make a reservation at a restaurant.

We're fully booked.
The restaurant doesn't have any tables available.

I'll call to...book a table.
We're fully...booked.

under the name
I have a reservation under the name Peter.

Good evening. 
I have reserved a table under the name of Peter.

We can inform a staff member of our reservation 
details by giving the following information:

1. "a table for" + number of people
2. "under the name" + person's name
3. "at" + time

I've booked a table for six under the name Richard at 7:30pm.

I have a table for two under the name Scott at 6 o'clock.

a table for...three people
under the...name Michelle
at...8pm

I have a table for two under the name Brad at 5pm.
I'm glad we reserved a table, the place seems totally booked!

Holly is glad that they reserved a table.
I've booked a table under the name Daniel.

Waiter:
Good evening, this is Green Table Restaurant. 
How can I help you?

Customer:
Hi, I'd like to make a reservation for tomorrow night, 
please.

Waiter:
Of course! What time would you like to book a table?

Customer:
Is 7pm available?

Waiter:
We don't have a table available at 7pm, 
but we do have a table at 8pm.

Customer:
8pm is fine, thank you.

Waiter:
Excellent. How many people will be joining you?

Customer:
There will be four of us.

Waiter:
Great! I've booked a table for four at 8pm tomorrow night.

"to make a reservation" means to request a table 
at a specific date and time, at a restaurant.

What time would you like to book a table?
We can ask to "book a table" or "make a reservation".

The customer asks if a table is available at 7pm.

3.Undefined quantities
Use "some" and "any" to talk about undefined quantities

Can I have some water?
I'd like some water please.
In this sentence, "some water" can refer to one glass 
as well as two, or even more.

Could I get some napkins please?

The word "some"

We use "some" in a positive sentence to talk 
about an indefinite amount of something.

There are some free tables outside.
Can I get some bread, please?
I'm buying some groceries.

There are some people waiting for a table at the bar.
This sentence only tells us that there are people 
waiting, but not exactly how many.

I don't mind, any dessert is fine!
Do you have any recommendations?

We normally use "any" rather than "some" in questions.

The word "any"

We use "any" to suggest an undefined amount of something. 
We often use it in questions and negative sentences.

I don't want any potatoes, thanks.
Do you have any food allergies?
You can pick any restaurant you like.

Are there any vegetarian options?
The word "any" refers to an undefined number.

Do you have any allergies?
Do you have any ideas for her birthday?
I don't want any onions in my salad.

The word "any"

We usually use "any" with plural or uncountable nouns 
when we don't care about the exact amount or the 
specific type of something.

What's more important is to find out 
if something's there at all.

Do you have any free tables for tonight?
Sure.
Would you like one near the window?
It doesn't matter. Any is fine.
Anna doesn't care where the table is, as long as 
there is one for her.

We couldn't find any vegan options.

Let's compare "any" and "some":

Generally, we use "any" in negative contexts 
(e.g. when we know something's not there or 
when we don't want something).

We say "some" in positive contexts 
(e.g. when we expect that something is there 
or when we do want something).

Is there any bread left?
I don't want any wine.

Could I have some bread, please?
I would like some more sauce.

He wants some coffee.
Should we have some dessert?
Could we get some water?
Could we have some bread, please?

We walk into a busy restaurant. 
It looks crowded. How might we ask for a table?
Are there any free tables?
I can't find any plates in the kitchen.

How can we ask if the restaurant offers vegetarian dishes?
Do you have any vegetarian options?
Unfortunately we didn't get any tickets for the concert.

We decide to share a dessert. Someone asks: 
"Which one would you like?" 
I don't mind, any dessert is fine!

4. Ordering food
Learn how to order food in a restaurant

Are you having a starter?
For starters, can I get some calamari?

This course often comes first during a meal.

Do you want to share the mozzarella as a starter?
We call it "a starter" (noun) as it is 
the first of a multi-course meal.

And for the main course?
What did you order for your main course?
"a course" is a meal. A typical three-course meal 
includes a starter, a main course and a dessert.

If you order a steak, you may be asked 
if you want it "well done" or "medium rare".

For a dish cooked with chillies, 
you might be asked how "spicy" you want it.

You may also have special "side dishes" included in the main.

Can I get a lamb curry, extra spicy?
I'd like my steak medium rare, please.
I'll have the cod with a side of chips.

I'd like a chilli chicken, medium spicy, 
with a side of fries, please.

For a chilli dish, we may need to say how spicy 
we want it. Fries are usually a side dish.

a dessert
Would you like a dessert?

Some people in the UK refer to dessert as "pudding".
"pudding" can also refer to a type of dessert, 
such as "Christmas pudding" and "rice pudding".

I've finished my main. What's for pudding?
I bought a can of rice pudding.

The "main course" is usually the largest meal. 
It can also be called "a main".

dietary requirements
Do you have any dietary requirements?
"dietary requirements" means limitations 
on certain foods that we can't eat.

Do you have any vegan options?
Do you have any gluten-free options?
We use "options" to ask for alternatives.

If you have specific dietary requirements, 
you may ask for an option that can suit you. 
Below are some common ones:

Do you have any vegetarian options?
Do you have any gluten-free options?
Do you have any dairy-free options? 

I can't have milk for religious reasons. 
Do you have a dairy-free option, like almond milk?

She has a dietary requirement.
She asked for a dairy-free option because 
she cannot have milk.

I'm allergic to peanuts.
Olivia doesn't eat nuts. She's allergic.

People who are "allergic" tend to have 
a bad reaction to eating something.


----
Waiter:
Are you all ready to order?

Simon:
Yes, we are. For starters, can we get some calamari to share?

Waiter:
Certainly.

Simon:
And for the main, I'll have the sirlion steak, well done.

Waiter:
Which sides with that?

Simon:
Chips and peas, please.

Waiter:
And for you?

Claire:
Yes, do you have gluten-free options on your menu?

Waiter:
Absolutely, we offer several gluten-free options.

Claire:
That's perfect because I'm allergic to gluten. 
Do you also have vegan and vegetarian options?

Waiter:
We do. I suggest the mushroom pie with chips. 
The pie is gluten-free.

Claire:
Amazing. I'll have that.

Simon and Claire will just share the starter 
(calamari) and order their own main courses.
For the main, I'll have the sirloin steak, well done.

She asks if there are any "gluten-free options" 
(dishes without gluten).

She says "I'm allergic to gluten" to warn the waiter 
that she must avoid dishes with gluten.

5. Developing fluency
Practise ordering food at a restaurant

I'm ready to order.
Can we get some nachos as a starter?
Do you have any gluten-free options?
For the main course, I'd like the salmon with sweet potatoes.
We can also say "a main" instead of "a main course".

As a main course, I'd like a steak, medium rare.
Can I get some ice cream for dessert?





































































































































































