Chapter 27: Dinner parties

1. Hosting a dinner party
Make conversation at the dinner table

Dinner's ready!
Are you hungry?
I'm not hungry yet.

I hope you're feeling hungry because dinner's ready!

We can say this when we invite someone over 
for dinner and the food is ready.

Help yourself.
Help yourself. There's plenty of everything.

Help yourself!
At the dinner table, "help yourself" means that 
we can start putting food on our plates and 
we do not have to wait for anyone to serve us.

We can also say "dig in" (literally: dig in), 
which is more informal.

Dig in before it gets cold!
Just help yourself. There's plenty of everything.

Please, go ahead and help yourself.
This means we can start serving ourselves.

delicious
This is absolutely delicious.
If you like the food, you can express this 
by saying the phrase "This is delicious!"

Would you like a top-up?
Your glass is empty, can I top it up for you?

We can use "to top up" as a verb as well as 
a noun: "a top-up".

a top-up 🍷

We use the phrase "Would you like a top-up?" or 
"Can I top you up?" to offer a guest some more drink.

We don't use this phrase for food.

Can I top your glass up, Sophie?
Let me top up your wine glass.
We've got plenty of wine. Would anyone like a top-up?

Do you want seconds?
We've got some more noodles. 
Would you like seconds?

To offer a guest more food, we say "Would you like seconds?".

Would you like seconds?
To offer a guest more food, we say "Would you like seconds?".

I'm full!
Thanks, it was delicious, but I'm really full!
We say "I'm full" when we don't want to eat any more food.

Thanks, but I'm full. I can't eat any more food.
Can I have seconds? I can eat some more food.

Dinner's ready!
I hope you're feeling hungry.
Would you like a top-up?
We use "a top-up" to offer more drink, 
but "seconds" to offer more food.

Do you want a top-up? offering more drink
Would you like seconds? offering more food

We use "a top-up" to offer more drink, 
but "seconds" to offer more food.

Help yourself.

Are you hungry?

This dessert is delicious! Is there enough to have seconds?
I'm full.

Thanks, but I don't have room for seconds. I'm full!

VOCABULARY
Dinner's ready!
Are you hungry?
Help yourself.
delicious
Would you like a top-up?
Do you want seconds?
I'm full!

2. Exploring dinner party etiquette
Explore the etiquette of dinner parties in Singapore

Living in Singapore
I grew up in Britain and studied modern languages 
at university in London. 
After I graduated, I started working 
as an international lawyer. 
I love my job and it's taken me all over the world: 
first Spain, then Brazil and now Singapore.

I moved here for work in 2010 and I was only 
planning to stay for a couple of years, 
but then I met an amazing man called Logan 
at a friend's wedding and my plans changed.

Living in Singapore

Logan and I got married and bought an apartment 
outside the city centre in the Tiong Bahru neighbourhood. 
It's quieter than in the city centre, 
but the transport links are good, 
so travel to work is easy. 
There are plenty of shops, cafés and restaurants 
and many of our friends also live in this area.

Singapore is one of the most expensive cities 
in the world, but it feels safe and there's lots 
to do here. It's also one of the most culturally 
interesting cities I know. 
Singapore has four official languages: 
Malay, Mandarin, Tamil and English. 
Logan and I both speak English at work and 
in most social situations, but Logan's family is 
from Singapore and they mainly speak Tamil at home.

Dinner party etiquette in Singapore.

Before we got married, I invited Jo to have a 
traditional dinner with my family at their house. 
She had never had dinner with a Singaporean family 
before and she wanted be a respectful dinner 
guest, so I gave her a few tips...

1. Bring a small gift
When you're invited to dinner it's traditional to 
bring a small gift for the host. Typically, people 
give a box of chocolates, sweets, fruit or a small 
plant. In Singapore it's common to bow slightly 
when you give the gift to show respect.

2. Remove your shoes
It's traditional to take off your shoes when you 
enter someone's home. This helps to keep the home 
clean and show respect.

Dinner party etiquette in Singapore.

3. Respect elder family members
In both Singaporean and Tamil cultures, 
we like to show respect for the elder members of 
the family at the dinner table. We always top up 
their glasses and offer them more food first. 
It's polite to let them start eating first.

4. Serving and eating food
It's polite to wait for the host to tell you where 
to sit. We usually pass dishes around the table so 
that everyone can help themselves. We only use our 
right hand for eating - it can be rude to use the 
left hand.

5. Compliment the food
When the host offers you a dish, put a small 
amount on your plate and compliment their cooking 
by saying something like "Thank you, this is 
delicious!". You can have seconds if you really 
enjoyed it. This is a great way to show gratitude 
to the host.

Jo came to Singapore because of her job: 
"I moved here for work."

to bow
In many Asian countries, it's polite to bow 
when you greet someone.

to show respect
You can bring a gift to dinner to show respect 
for your host.

It's traditional to remove your shoes 
when you enter someone's home.

The phrase "to compliment their cooking" means 
to say something nice about the food.

VOCABULARY
to bow
to show respect

3. Asking questions with "how"
Ask people for more information

How big was the meal?
To ask about the size of the meal, 
we can say "How big was the meal?".

"How" + adjective
We can use "How" + adjective (e.g. "old", "big") 
to ask someone for more detailed information.

How old are your children?
How tall is the tree in your garden?
How cold does Paris get in the winter?
How hot is this plate?

How old is your car?
We use "How old...?" to ask about age.

How old...?to ask about age
How big...?to ask about size

How cold does it get in Singapore?
We use "How hot...?" or "How cold...?" 
to ask about temperature.

How hot does it get where you live?

How hard was it for you to learn English?
We use "How hard...?" to ask about the difficulty of something.

How hard was it to get here?
The journey was quite easy!

How old is your brother again?
He's thirty two this year.

How spicy is this dish here?
It's got a little bit of chilli in it.

We can ask for more information about food 
by using adjectives like "spicy" and "sweet".

How windy is it outside?
The question is about weather, so "windy". 
We could also use "rainy", "cold" or "hot" here.

"How" + adverb
We can also follow the question word ""How"" 
with an adverb (e.g. "long", "far").

How long ...? - to ask about time
How long have you lived in Singapore?

How far ...? - to ask about distance
How far is your house from the city centre?

How often ...? - to ask about frequency
How often do you see your parents?

How long did your journey take?
We use "How long...?" to ask about an amount 
of time or a duration.

How long did you spend cooking?
How long have you lived in Lisbon?

How far did the guests travel to the party?
How far is the city centre from here?

How far ...?to ask about distance
How often ...? to ask about frequency

How often do you go to the theatre?
How often do your parents visit you?
How long was the film you saw last night?

"How many...? and "How much...?"
To ask about the quantity or amount of something, 
we can use "How many...? with countable nouns 
(e.g. "days"), and "How much...? with uncountable 
nouns (e.g. "time").

How many days are you spending in Venice?
How much time did it take you to get here?

How much drink did she buy?
Remember, "drink" is uncountable here, 
so we use "How much...?" to ask about quantity.

How much time did it take to make?
How many people came to visit you?
How many people sent an RSVP?

How many...times have you visited Paris.
How much...time did you spend in Paris?

"How many times" means the number of trips, 
but "How much time" means the duration of one trip.

4. Reviewing questions about the past
Ask questions about the past

Sasha tells Martin about her birthday party...

Martin: Hey Sasha, how was your weekend? Did you go out?

Sasha: Hey, Martin. Actually, I stayed in! 
I threw a small dinner party for a few close 
friends at my house last weekend to celebrate my 
25th birthday. I bought plenty of drink and hired 
someone to make the food because I didn't want to 
cook on my birthday. We put everything on the 
table and everyone helped themselves.
Martin: That sounds really cool!

Sasha: Yeah, my friends even planned a surprise. 
We were eating and talking, when suddenly the 
lights went out. My friend came into the room with 
a huge birthday cake. Everyone was looking at me. 
They started singing and I couldn't believe it! 
The cake was my favourite flavour too - lemon and 
blueberry! It felt very special!

Martin: It sounds like you have amazing friends!

Questions in the past simple
To ask questions about a completed state or action 
in the past (when the main verb is not "be") , we use:

Question word (optional) + "did" + person / thing + verb ...?

question in past simple
Which DJ did you hire?

positive sentence
You hired a DJ.

How did Sasha celebrate her birthday?
Who did Sasha hire to cook the food?

For completed past actions: Question word ("Who") 
+ "did" + person (Sasha) + verb ("hire")?

What did Sasha's friend make? Her friend made a cake.
What flavour was it? It was lemon and blueberry.

When the main verb is "be", we use "was / were" 
in the question, but "did" for action verbs.

Why did Sasha hire someone to make the food?
Where did she put the food?

Questions in the past simple
To ask about the past when the main verb 
in the sentence is "be", we use:

Question word (optional) + "was / were" + person / thing ...?

question in past simple
Where was the party?

positive sentence
The party was at my house.

What flavour was Sasha's birthday cake?
Why didn't she want to prepare the food herself?

What did...they talk about?
What was...the conversation about?

How did Sasha feel when the cake appeared?

Questions in the past continuous
To ask questions about past actions in progress, 
we use the past continuous structure:

Question word (optional) + "was(n't) / were(n't)" 
+ person / thing + -ing form of the verb ...?

What was happening at that moment?
What were you doing when the phone rang?

What was everyone doing when the lights went out?
Why was everyone looking at Sasha?

What was...happening when the lights went out?
What were...the guests doing when the lights went out?

We use "was" with the "-ing" form when the subject 
is "he", "she, it"or "I".

Why was Sasha throwing a dinner party?
What were Sasha and her friends talking about?
Why was everyone looking at Sasha?

Why was Sasha...having a dinner party?
Why did Sasha...have a dinner party?

Past questions with "who"
The question word “who” sometimes behaves 
differently from the others. That’s because it can 
play different roles in a sentence.

When it's the subject (performing the main verb), 
“who” goes immediately before the verb and the 
rest of the question has the same structure as a 
positive sentence.

We don't use "did" + verb in these cases.
Who ate my dessert?
Who ordered this pizza?
Who was eating my dessert?

Who came to the dinner?
When "Who" is the subject, we use the same 
structure as a positive sentence: "came".

Who...came to the party?
Who did...she invite to dinner?

We say "Who came to the party?" because "who" is 
the subject that performs the verb ("came").

Who made the birthday cake?

Who did you want to invite?
Here, "who" is the object and "you" is the 
subject, so we say: "Who did you want to invite?"

5. Developing fluency
Describe the last party you organised or attended

The last party I attended was a bachelorette party 
for my sister, who was getting married.

Because the party happened in the past, 
we use the past simple: "attended".

When was the last time you threw a party?
We use the phrase "throw a party" as a way 
to say "organise a party".

I organised an event last month with 100 people 
on the guest list.

I went to a cool party at work recently. 
There was plenty of food and they even hired a DJ.

here wasn't enough drink at the last party I attended!

I set a date for the party 3 months in advance.

My wife and I didn't want a big wedding, 
so the guest list was really small.

The last party I threw was for my 30th birthday 
about 2 months ago.

My friend Emma invited me to her housewarming 
party. I went, but many people couldn't make it.

I invited all my close friends to my Halloween party.
The easiest way to invite the guests was to post 
the details in a private group on social media.















































































































































