Chapter 12: Meetings
1. Asking for clarification
Ask the speaker to repeat themselves

Could you say that again?

He politely asks the speaker to repeat herself 
by saying "Could you say that again?".

Sorry, I didn't catch that.
"Sorry, I didn't catch that" is another polite way 
to ask for clarification.

Sorry? / Excuse me?
What do you mean?
We can ask "What do you mean?" when we want someone 
to give an explanation or more information.

Asking politely 🙇 🔁
If we say "sorry" or "excuse me" before asking someone 
to repeat or clarify themselves, we sound more polite.

If we don't say "sorry" or "excuse me", 
we can sound too direct or even a little rude.

Compare these examples. ⤵️

less polite
I didn't catch that.
What do you mean?

more polite
Sorry, I didn't catch that.
Excuse me, what do you mean?

Could you speak a little louder?
We can say "Could you speak a little louder?" 
if we can't clearly hear the speaker.

I'm not sure I follow.
I'm not sure I follow. Could you explain that again?

We can say "I'm not sure I follow" to ask 
the speaker to repeat an idea in a different way.

She says "I'm not sure I follow", which means 
she's asking for clarification of an idea.

Madison: Good afternoon David, can we schedule a meeting for tomorrow?

David: Sorry, I didn't catch that. 
Could you speak a little louder?

Madison: Let's meet at 3 pm tomorrow in the conference room.

David: Sorry, what do you mean? Which conference room?

Madison: The one on the second floor.

David: Excuse me, I'm not sure I follow.

Madison: The big meeting room on the second floor.

David: Could you say that again, please?

Madison: Let's meet at 3 pm tomorrow in the large conference room on the second floor.

David says "I didn't catch that" to politely tell 
his manager he didn't hear / understand her clearly.

Excuse me, I'm not sure I follow.
Asking for clarification

The big meeting room on the second floor.
Clarifying information

David doesn't understand where the meeting room is, 
so he asks for clarification.

2. Navigating a meeting
Learn language for work meetings

I wanted to talk to you about something.
What are your thoughts?

I think that...
I think that we need some extra staff.

What are your thoughts?
I think that the meeting went well.

"What are your thoughts?" = asking for an opinion. 
"I think that..." = giving an opinion.

I think that...
We can use "I think that..." to share opinions or suggestions.

Instead of "I think", we can also use "In my opinion". 
It is a slightly more formal and polite way of 
expressing how we feel about something.

In my opinion, the first draft was better.
I think the third option works well, too.

In my opinion, the manager's responsible for this project.
We're running out of time.

We're running out of time.
We can use "We're running out of time." 
to say there's limited time left to complete something.

Do you have anything to add?
We've heard everyone's feedback. Do you have anything to add?
We can ask "Do you have anything to add?" 
to ensure everyone has a chance to speak in a meeting.

We can say "Do you have anything to add?" to ask 
if anyone has more information or input.

Any questions?
That's the plan for next month. Any questions?

We can say "Any questions?" at the end of a 
presentation or explanation, to invite questions.

Shall we move on?
We've finished this topic. Shall we move on?

We can say "Shall we move on?" to suggest 
proceeding to the next topic or task.

To sum up...
To sum up, everyone is responsible for keeping the kitchen clean.
To sum up, the team did an excellent job.

We can use "To sum up..." to introduce a summary or conclusion.

To sum up, we have a busy month ahead.
We often use "To sum up..." at the end of discussions 
to recap the main points.

3. Taking notes in a meeting
Learn about note taking

Harper:
Good morning, everyone! Let's begin the meeting. 
Today, we'll discuss the new project. 
What are your thoughts, Ethan?

Ethan:
I think that we might need some extra staff 
to complete the project on time.

Harper:
Thank you. Do you have anything to add, Mia?

Mia:
Yes, I agree with Ethan. 
Some extra staff would be helpful.

Harper:
Good points, shall we move on?

Harper:
Any questions?

Ethan:
Just one - can the extra staff work from home?

Harper:
Yes, they can work from home two days a week. 
So, we're running out of time. 
Mia, can you give us the key points from this meeting, please?

Mia:
Of course. To sum up, the project is well organised, 
but we need some extra staff. Also, 
the extra staff can work from home two days a week.

Harper:
Great. Can you write down the following action items. 
Ethan will hire three extra staff. 
Mia will tell the staff they can work 
from home two days a week.

a key point
What are the key points from today's meeting?

A key point is a main idea discussed during a meeting.
"Key points" are the most important information in a meeting.

n action item
Here are five action items to complete after the meeting.

An action item is a task that must be completed after a meeting.
"Action items" usually have to be completed 
by a specific person / people.

key points - the main ideas
action items - action points

In a meeting, it's useful to take notes about 
the "key points" and "action items".

Taking notes in a meeting ✍️ 📝

In a meeting, it's useful to take notes 
about the "key points" and "action items".

When writing notes:

✅ Only write the important information.
❌ Don't write every word that a person says
❌ Don't use complete sentences.

sentence
"Yes, the extra staff can work from home two days a week."

the main points
staff
work home
two days a week

We're running out of time.
Here, "we're running out of time" means "
there is not much time left in the meeting".

Here, "we're running out of time" = 
there is not much time left in the meeting.

4. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

Could you say that again, please?
Sorry, I didn't catch what you said.

Sorry, what do you mean by...?"

What do you mean by late?
Could you say that again, please?

I can't quite hear you. 
Could you speak a little louder, please?

I'm not sure I follow.
Can you speak a little louder?

I'm not sure I follow. Can you say that again please?

4. Review
A quick review of recent lessons

Tania is not working at the moment.
She was talking with the kitchen staff.
I need to have a chat with her.
She went home at lunch time.
You could give her a call or email her.
Yeah, good idea. I'll call her. 
Anyway, I'd better go. See you later.

Hannah wants to change the length of their holiday.
I was having a chat with my boss today.

I was having a chat with my boss today and 
I asked for two weeks off|2 weeks off.

Hey Susan, it's Hannah. 
I wanted to talk with you about our holiday. 
I was having a chat with my boss today, 
and I asked for two weeks off, but he said it isn't 
possible because there are people on holiday 
and I'm in charge of the restaurant. 
So, I was wondering: could we just have a weekend away instead? 
What are your thoughts? Talk to you later!

5.










































































































































































































