Chapter 5: Social life

1.Arranging to meet with friends
Arrange to socialise with friends

What are your plans this weekend?
"the weekend" in most English-speaking countries refers 
to Friday evening, Saturday and Sunday.

Do you want to meet up this weekend?
We can use "meet up" to make plans to see a friend.

Are you free on Friday?
We use the preposition "on" to talk about a specific 
day of the week.

I'm free on Friday.
If someone says "I'm free" it means they don't have any plans.

2. Making plans and suggestions
Use "let's" and "how about" to make plans and suggestions

Let's meet up on Friday.
The word "let's" usually introduces a plan or suggestion.

Let's go out this weekend.
We use "let's go out" to make a weekend plan outside 
the home with friends.

How about we meet at 8pm?
"How about…?" is used to make a suggestion.

How about...?
We can also use "How about...?" when we want to suggest 
a plan or idea.

If you don't use a pronoun such as "I" or "we", then we 
use the -ing form of the verb (e.g "meeting") after it.

How about we meet at 8pm?
How about meeting at 8pm?

How about meeting up on Saturday afternoon?
The -ing form of the verb (e.g "meeting") is used, 
so we don't need the pronoun "we".

3. Making invitations
Offer, accept, and politely decline social invitations

Would you like to come to my housewarming?
The phrase "Would you like to..." usually introduces 
an invitation. It's a housewarming party.

Sounding polite 😊
To make an invitation we usually ask someone 
"Would you like to...", because it sounds more polite 
than asking "Do you want to...".

less polite
"Do you want to come to my party?"

more polite
"Would you like to come to my party?"

Would you like to come to my Halloween party?
"Would you like to..." is more polite than asking 
"Do you want to...".

Okay, sounds great!
ould you like to go to a party on Friday? 
Okay, sounds great!

We say "sounds great" or "sounds good" when we want 
to say yes to an invitation or suggestion.

Sorry, I have plans.
"Sorry, I have plans." means someone is busy 
and they can't accept the invitation.

4. Making dinner plans
Learn common phrasal verbs

Let's eat out tonight.
The phrasal verb "to eat out" means to eat in a restaurant.

How about we eat in?
He says "How about we eat in?", to suggest eating at home.

to eat in - to eat at home
to eat out - to eat in a restaurant

Remember that phrasal verbs have a different meaning 
from the individual verb and preposition.

Would you like to eat out tonight, or eat in?
We can use the verbs "eat in" and "eat out" to make dinner plans.

I want to eat in, she wants to eat out.

Do you want to eat out tonight?

Notice how the preposition "out" is slightly more 
stressed than "eat".

5. Developing fluency
Practise with English native speakers

Let's meet up on Sunday!
Notice how when we say "meet" and "up", 
we don't pause between the words. We join them together.

Would you like to go out this weekend?
We use "Would you like to" to offer an invitation to someone.

Would you like to go out on Friday night?

Would you like to meet up this weekend?

Hey Hannah! Are you free this weekend?
In a question, we place the verb "are" before 
the subject "you" of the sentence.

Are you free on Sunday evening? Let's go out!
Let's eat in on Friday night.

Hey Tom! There's a new café in town. 
Let's meet up and have coffee there on Saturday morning!

Remember we use the preposition "on" 
before days of the week ("Saturday").

Hey Seb, how about we eat out after work tomorrow?
Remember, we stress the preposition "out" 
in the phrasal verb "eat out".

How about we go to the cinema on Saturday night?
















































































































































































































































