Welcoming visitors

Learn expressions to welcome and instruct visitors

How can I help you?

We ask the question "How can I help you?" 
to offer support in a polite and professional way.

Thank you for calling. How can I help you today?

Hi, I'm Lee from customer service. How can I help you?

We say "How can I help you?" to find out 
what assistance or service someone needs.

Can I have your name, please?

We can say "Can I have your names, please?" 
to ask for multiple people's names at once.

Here's a tip!
We can use "can I" + "have" or "take" when asking 
for someone's name.

Can I have your name, please?

Can I take your name, please?

Can I take your name, please, 
so I can direct your call to the right department?

Can you complete this form, please?

We use "Can you complete this form, please?" 
when asking for written details in a respectful way.

Could you wear this badge, please?

The term "badge" refers to something 
that shows someone's identity, like a name tag.

To access the event, could you wear this badge, please?

We say "Could you wear this badge, please?"
to ask someone to display their identity clearly

Could you wear this badge, please?

To help staff identify you, could you wear this badge, please?

How can I help you?

Can I have your names, please?

Could you wear this badge, please?

VOCABULARY

How can I help you?

Can I have your name, please?

Can you complete this form, please?

Could you wear this badge, please?

----------------------

Making a first impression
Learn to make a good first impression with visitors

I'll call Mr / I'll call Ms

We use "I'll call Mr / Ms" to show we plan 
to contact someone by phone or video.

I'll call Ms Clark after the meeting for the updates.

We use "I'll call someone" to politely say 
we plan to contact a person, usually by phone.

I'll call Mr Hassan about the project.

Here's a tip!

We use the title "Mr" before a man's last name, 
regardless of marital status.

In a business context, we usually use "Ms" 
before a woman's last name as it doesn't indicate 
marital status, unlike "Mrs" or "Miss".

Notice we don't add a full stop after the title.

I'll call Mr Malik to update him on the progress.

I'll call Ms Adams to ask about the presentation.

I'll call Ms Thomas to discuss her training schedule.

We use "Ms" regardless of marital status. 
"Mrs" indicates that the person is married.

Please, take a seat.

He says "take a seat", which is a polite way
to ask someone to sit and wait.

Please take a seat. Ms Jones will call when she's ready.

Please take a seat while I prepare the documents for you.

Someone will come down to get you.

The phrase "come down to get you" means a person 
will arrive and take someone to another place.

Please wait in reception and 
the manager will come down to get you.

I will come down to get you.

We can also say "meet" or "take" instead of "get"
in the phrase "come down to get you".


I'll call Ms Clarke.

Please take a seat.
 
Someone will come down to get you.

Please wait in reception and someone will come down to get you soon.

The phrase "come down" usually means to move 
to a lower level or location to meet someone.

VOCABULARY

I'll call Mr / I'll call Ms

Please, take a seat.

Someone will come down to get you.

-------------------------
Meeting company visitors
Learn how to meet company visitors

Excuse me, are you Ms Johnson?

We use "Excuse me, are you...?" + a name 
("Mr Stevens") to confirm a person's identity.

Excuse me, are you the guest speaker for today?

We can use the phrase "excuse me" to politely 
get someone's attention or ask a question.

Excuse me, are you Mr Ahmed from the sales department?

This is my colleague, Susan.
He says "This is my colleague" to introduce 
a person he works with ("John").

This is my colleague, Mikiko. 
She's been leading the training sessions.

This is my colleague, Anthony. He handles client accounts.

to ask someone to meet someone
Colin Moore asked me to meet you this morning.

She says "I'll ask the CEO to meet the investors", 
meaning she'll arrange a meeting between them.

Erin Greene asked me to meet you.

Come this way, please.

We use the phrase "Come this way, please" 
to politely guide someone to a specific location.

We use the word "come" in "Come this way, please" 
to ask someone to follow us to a location.

Excuse me, are you Mr Janssen?

This is my colleague Carolina Gomez.

Come this way, please Ms Jones.

VOCABULARY

Excuse me, are you Ms Johnson?

This is my colleague, Susan.

to ask someone to meet someone

Come this way, please.

---------------
Listening to visitors arriving
Listen to a visitor arriving at an office

Listen. What is the receptionist doing?

Receptionist:
Good morning. How can I help you?

Sarah:
Hello, I'm here for a meeting with Mr Thompson.

Receptionist:
Certainly. Can I have your name, please?

Sarah:
Yes, I’m Sarah Collins.

Receptionist:
Thank you. Can you complete this form, please? 
It’s for visitor registration.

Sarah:
Of course, not a problem.

Receptionist:
Great. Could you wear this badge, please? 
It’s for security purposes.

Sarah:
No problem.

Receptionist:
Thanks. I’ll call Mr Thompson to let him know 
you’re here. Please, take a seat.

Mark:
Excuse me, are you Sarah Collins.

Sarah:
Yes, I am.

Mark:
Great. My name is Mark Jones, 
I'm a colleague of Mr Thompson. 
He asked me to meet you.

Sarah:
Nice to meet you.

Mark:
Okay. Come this way, please. 
I'll take you to Mr Thompson's office.

-------------------
Asking about business trips
Learn how to ask visitors about their trip

How was your trip?

We use the question "How was your...?" 
to ask someone about their experience of an event.

How was your first day at the company?

We often use the question "How was your...?" 
+ an event ("first day at the company").

How was your lunch with the project manager?
Is this your first time in London?

We use the question "Is this your first time in...?" 
to ask if someone has visited a place before.

Is this your first time in our office?

We often ask "Is this your first time in...?" + 
a place ("our office").

Is this your first time in this building?
Did you have any trouble finding the office?

Did you have any trouble getting here from the airport?

We need to use an "-ing" form ("getting") 
after the question "Did you have any trouble...?".































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































