Chapter 2: Types of employment

Describing employment types
Learn vocabulary to describe types of employment

to work full time
I work full time as a software developer.

She works the whole of the working week.

The term "full-time" means the whole of the working week, 
typically 35 to 40 hours.

I work full-time in customer service for a tech company.
The term "full-time" refers to regular employment 
with fixed hours, often five days a week.

to work part time
I work part time in a supermarket.

The term "part-time" means working fewer hours 
than full-time, typically under 35 hours a week.

She studies full-time while working part time 
at the weekend.

We use the term "part-time" to say we work 
fewer hours than a full-time schedule.



full time
to work regular hours, usually 35 to 40 hours a week

part time
to work reduced hours, usually less than 35 hours a week

a freelancer
I like being a freelancer because I can choose 
who I work for.

The term "freelancer" indicates he works 
independently and is not committed to a single employer.

a contractor
She works as a contractor for different tech companies.

The term "contractor" refers to someone hired 
for a limited time who is not an employee.

She hired a contractor to design the company’s marketing materials.

The term "contractor" refers to someone hired 
for a specific task or project.

VOCABULARY

to work full time

to work part time

a freelancer

a contractor

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Describing duties
Learn vocabulary to describe your responsibilities at work

to manage
I manage the R&D department.

We use the verb "to manage" to describe taking responsibility 
for tasks or people.

I manage a small team in the finance department.
We use "to manage" to indicate that we are 
in charge of people, projects or resources

to organise

She is going to organise a meeting to talk about 
the new software.


The verb "to organise" means to plan and prepare for something 
(e.g. "a meeting").

We need to organise a fun event to show our new product.
We can use "to organise" to talk about planning 
any event that involves other people.

to deal with
I'll deal with the unhappy customer right away.

The phrase "to deal with" indicates that he 
will not ignore the complaints and will take action.

Marketing deals with our social media posts.

We use the phrase "to deal with" when we manage a situation, 
task or problem.

I dealt with the technical problem before the meeting.
The past form of "deal with" is "dealt with".

to be responsible for
I'm responsible for managing junior employees in the company.

We use the phrase "to be responsible for" to introduce our work duties.


I'm responsible for making sure our product works.

We use "to be responsible for" when we have a duty or task to manage.

She's responsible for organising the event.

I'm going to deal with the situation today.

We say "to be responsible for" and "to deal with".

VOCABULARY

to manage

to organise

to deal with

to be responsible for

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Listening to job descriptions
Listen to people talk about their jobs

Ellen:
So, Mark, I heard you work here part time.

Mark:
Yes, that’s right.

Ellen:
Do you have another job?

Mark:
I’m also a freelancer. 
I do some design work for a few clients. 
And what about you?

Ellen:
I work here full time. 
I’m mainly responsible for managing our social media accounts.

Mark:
That’s great. Do you get to organise the campaign plans?

Ellen:
Sometimes, yes. 
I also have to deal with client feedback and make any changes.

What are the employees discussing?
job roles and responsibilities

They use terms like "part-time" and "freelancer"
to describe job roles and responsibilities.

Mark works as a freelancer for more than one client.

Mark says "I'm a freelancer" and 
"I work for a few clients", meaning more than one client.

Ellen works at the company as a full-time employee.

Mark works at the company as a part-time freelancer.

Ellen sometimes organises the campaign plans.
We use "to organise" to talk 
about planning any event (e.g. "the campaign").

Ellen has to deal with customer feedback.
We use the phrase "to deal with" 
when we manage a situation, task or problem.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Developing fluency
Practise talking about your type of work and responsibilities

I work full-time at a marketing agency where I create content.
The term "full-time" refers to regular employment 
with fixed hours, often five days a week.

I work part-time as a customer service agent.
The term "part-time" means working fewer hours 
than full-time, typically under 35 hours a week.

I became a freelancer after years of working in an office.

I work as a contractor to help companies complete short-term projects.
The term "contractor" refers to someone hired for a specific task or project.

I manage the sales team to help us reach our goals every three months.
We also use "to manage" to say we have control over a team.

I deal with requests from customers.
We use the phrase "to deal with" when we manage a situation, task or problem.

I deal with customer complaints and solve them quickly.
We use the phrase "to deal with" 
when we manage a problem (e.g. "customer complaints").

I am responsible for preparing reports for the management team.
We use "to be responsible for" to introduce our work duties (e.g. "preparing reports").

I am responsible for training new staff members when they join the company.
We use "to be responsible for" when we have a duty or task to manage.
















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































