Chapter 33: Entertainment

1. Asking about tastes
Learn questions to ask about favourite genres

What music do you like?

What films do you like?

We use the word "like" to talk about things that 
we enjoy, but aren't necessarily our favourite.

What books do you like?
We use "do" with "like" to ask someone about 
their general taste in film, music, etc.

What's your favourite film?
We use the phrase "what's your favourite" to ask 
someone about their favourite things.

What's your favourite song?

What books do you like?
What's your favourite book?

What books do you like?

favourite
This is my favourite book.
I watched my favourite TV show last night.
This is my favourite film.

We use the verb "like" to talk about things 
that we enjoy in general.

We use the adjective "favourite" to talk about 
the things that we like the most.

I like fruit.
My favourite fruit is an apple.

What's your favourite TV show?

2. Seeing and listening
Learn common verbs related to eyes and ears

to listen
I'm listening to music.

Do you like listening to music?
The verb "to listen" is used to talk about 
paying attention to sounds, like music.

to hear
We can hear the train from our bedroom
I can hear the party in the living room.

The verb "to hear" is used to talk about sounds 
that come to our ears without effort.

The verb "to listen" is used when we talk about 
choosing to listen to something. For example, we 
often use the phrase "to listen to" + music.

The verb "to hear" is often used when we talk 
about hearing sounds. For example, we can say 
the phrase "I can hear..." when we can hear 
people talking or other background noises.

I always listen to music.
I can hear the cars outside.

He often listens to music in the car.

We use the verb "to listen" when we talk about 
choosing to listen to music or another sound.

I always hear the TV in my roommate's bedroom.

to see
Do you want to see a film with me?

I see a film at the cinema every weekend.
We often use the verb "to see" to talk about 
going to watch a film or show outside of your home.

to watch
They enjoy watching films at home.

She's a fan of Quentin Tarantino. 
She watches his films every weekend.

We often use the verb "to watch" to talk about 
viewing a film at home or in general.

We often use the verb "to see" to talk about 
going to see a film or show outside our home.

We often use the verb "to watch" to talk about 
viewing something at home or in general, such as 
a movie or sports match.

I see a film at the cinema every Saturday.
I watch football at home every Sunday.

The phrase "to see a film" implies that you are 
watching that film somewhere outside of your home.

to look
I like looking at paintings in museums.

She hates looking at paintings in a museum.

We use the verb "to look at" to talk about 
casually viewing things such as a painting.


I don't like seeing films at the cinema.
She enjoys looking at paintings.
He prefers to watch films at home.

I'm watching a show on Netflix and 
my sister is listening to music on the radio.

I was looking at photos while hearing 
my parents talking in the kitchen.

3. Making comparisons
Use comparative adjectives

sadder
The film is sadder than the book.

That song is sadder than this song.
With comparative adjectives like "sadder", 
we can use the formula "is" + "sadder" + "than".

This film is sadder than that film.

happier
This film is happier than the other film.
The song "Walking on Sunshine" is happier than the song "Imagine".

The comparative form of "happy" is "happier".
This book is happier than that one.

For two-syllable adjectives ending in "y", 
change the ending to "-ier" to form the comparative.

We add "-er" to most one-syllable adjectives to make a comparative (e.g. "smaller").

For one-syllable adjectives that end in a consonant, we 
add an extra consonant + "-er". For example, "sad" becomes "sadder".

For two-syllable adjectives that end in the letter "y", 
the ending changes to "-ier". For example, "happy" becomes "happier'.

One-syllable adjectives
Add "-er".
Your room is smaller than mine.
(Your room is smaller than mine.)

Adjectives that end in a consonant
Add an extra consonant + "-er".
That song is sadder.
(That song is sadder.)

Two-syllable adjectives that end in "-y"
Add "-ier".
Today I'm happier.
(Today I'm happier.)

That painting is sad, but this painting is sadder.

bigger
This painting is bigger than those paintings.
Your painting is bigger than my painting.
This art museum is bigger than the one in the city centre

smaller
This painting is smaller than those paintings.
This painting is smaller than that painting.

3. Irregular comparatives
Learn common irregular adjective forms

better
The film is better than the book.
The adjective "good" has an irregular comparative form. 
The comparative of "good" is "better".

I like the TV show "Friends" better than this show.

worse
The film is worse than the book.
The book is worse than the film.
The comparative form of "bad" is "worse".

This cinema is worse than the one in the city centre.
The comparative "worse" is spelled with an "e" at the end, 
even though it remains silent.

Irregular comparative adjectives
Some adjectives have an irregular form in the comparative. 
For example, the comparative of "good" is "better" and the 
comparative of "bad" is "worse".

That is a good film, but this one is better.
This is a bad book, but that one is worse.

good better
bad worse

 think this film is worse than that one, but they are both bad.
Irina says that "the books are better than the films". 
This implies that she prefers the books.

That is a good song, but this song is better.

I was feeling bad yesterday but now I'm better.
Drake's new album is worse than his last one.

4. Listening to a podcast
Listen to people talk about their favourite entertainment

Listen to two podcast hosts talk about their favourite 
forms of entertainment.

Settings
Enter fullscreen
Alice:
Hi everyone! Welcome to "Entertainment Talks." I'm Alice.

Mario:
And I'm Mario. This week, we're talking about our 
favourite things to watch and listen to. Let's start with 
films. What's your favourite film, Alice?

Alice:
My favourite film is "Toy Story." It's funny and makes me 
feel happier than other films. What about you, Mario?

Mario:
I like "Inception." It's exciting and makes me think a lot. It's better than most films.

Alice:
That's a great film! Do you like seeing films at the cinema?

Mario:
I prefer watching films at home because it is more 
relaxing. How about you, Alice?

Alice:
I enjoy seeing films at the cinema. I love going to the 
cinema with friends.

Alice: Now, let's talk about music. What music do you like, Mario?

Mario: I like listening to all kinds of music. 
I'm a fan of The Beatles. 
Their music is better than most modern music. 
What music do you like, Alice?

Alice: I am a big fan of Beyoncé. 
Her new album is better than her old music.

Mario: I really like her too! 
But I think her new album is worse than her last one.

Mario:
Do you watch TV shows too?

Alice:
Yes, I do. I love watching "Friends." 
It's funny and makes me laugh. 
What's your favourite TV show, Mario?

Mario:
I like "Breaking Bad." 
It's exciting but sometimes it's sad.

Alice:
"Breaking Bad" is great, but very different from "Friends.
" Which TV show is better?

Mario:
I don't know. "Friends" is funnier and happier, and 
"Breaking Bad" is sadder but more exciting.

Alice:
That's true. Breaking Bad is sadder than Friends.

Mario:
True. Thanks for listening to "Entertainment Talks."

Alice:
Thank you! See you next time, bye!

5. Describing entertainment
Use adjectives to review TV shows, film and music

interesting
This is an interesting book.
He thinks the "Dune" books are interesting.
I love this book! It's very interesting.

I don't like sad songs. They are boring.
I love horror films. They are interesting.

The word "interesting" is a positive adjective,
 and the word "boring" is negative.

exciting
I like watching exciting films.

We love watching this TV show. It's very exciting!

relaxing
I love listening to relaxing music.
Amud likes the song because it is "relaxing".

boring
That TV show is boring.
I hate this film! It is very boring.

"Breaking Bad" is an exciting TV show.

6. Comparing feelings
Learn how to use "more" and "less" with adjectives

more ... than
Reading a book is more relaxing than watching a movie.

"The Avengers" is more exciting than this movie.
For most adjectives with 2 or more syllables, 
we use the formula "more" + adjective + than".

This book is more relaxing than that book.

less ... than
Watching TV is less interesting than playing sports.
This TV show is less boring than "Friends".
Watching a film is less boring than reading a book.

Compare using more / less
For most adjectives with 2 or more syllables, 
we can use the formula "more" + adjective + "than" 
to say that something has a greater amount of a quality.

We can use the formula "less" + adjective + "than" to say 
that something has a smaller amount or degree of a quality.

This song is more relaxing than that song. 
This film is less interesting than the book.

"Dune" is more exciting than "Star Wars".
This song is sadder than that song.

I like this book. It is more interesting than that book.
The film is more boring than the book.
Watching TV is less exciting than listening to music.

7. Reading online profiles
Learn how to share your favourite entertainment online

Meet the Team!

Employee Profile:
Sarah Thompson

Job:
Marketing Specialist

Music Likes:
Sarah enjoys listening to Billie Ellish. 
She thinks her music is sadder than other music.

Favourite Films:
Sarah's favourite film is "The Breakfast Club." 
She thinks seeing a film at the cinema is more exciting 
than watching a film at home.

Favourite books:
Sarah's favourite book is "The Catcher in the Rye." 
She loves reading books at the weekend.

Other Entertainment:
Sarah thinks playing sports is better than watching TV. 
Sarah enjoys yoga, swimming, and travelling to new places.

Sarah uses the phrase "sadder than other music" to say 
why she enjoys her music.

Meet the Team!

Employee Profile:
Mike Johnson

Job:
Software Developer

Music Likes:
Mike enjoys listening to Ed Sheeran because 
it is happier than other music.

Favourite Films:
Mike loves watching films. His favourite film is 
"The Lord of the Rings".

Favourite Books:
Mike prefers reading "The Lord of the Rings" because 
the books are more exciting than the films.

Other Entertainment:
Mike thinks watching sports on TV is less boring than 
watching TV shows, but he thinks playing sports is more 
fun than watching sports.

8. Developing fluency
Share your preferences

Watching a film is more exciting than watching TV.
Playing sports is more exciting than watching sports.
This book is happier than most books.
My favourite film is "The Wizard of Oz". 
It's happier than the book.

I think watching TV is less relaxing than listening to music.
I think reading a book is better than watching TV.
I think the book is worse than the film.






































































































































