Chapter 34: Appointments

1. Making an appointment
Ask for availability

I'd like to make an appointment.
I'd like to make an appointment with Dr Kim this week.

I'd like to make an appointment.
We can use the verb "to make" when we are talking 
about scheduling an appointment.

I'd like to make an appointment, please.
Do you have any available appointments on Friday?

Do you have any available appointments?
We can use the word "available" to ask about 
when there are free time slots.

Do you have a free spot this morning?

Do you have a free spot this afternoon?
The terms "free spot" and "available appointment" 
mean available times in a schedule.

Here's a tip!

When referring to times on a calendar that are unbooked, 
the words "free" and "available" have the same meaning, 
as do the words "spot" and "appointment".

Remember to use the plural form with "any" (e.g. "any 
spots") and the singular form with "a" (e.g. "a spot").

Do you have a free spot?
Do you have a free appointment?

Do you have any available spots?
Do you have any available appointments?

Do you have a free spot on Wednesday?

Do you have any available appointments on Tuesday?
Do you have a free spot tomorrow?

We use the plural form with "any". 
We use the singular form with "a".

2. Referring to days
Learn ways to refer to the present, past and future

today
Can I book an appointment for 2 o'clock today, please?

The word "today" describes the present time.

Do you have any free spots today?
Can I book an appointment for 2 o'clock today, please?

yesterday
Did you have an appointment yesterday?
The word "yesterday" describes the day before today.

Did you have an appointment yesterday?

tomorrow
Do you have a free spot tomorrow?

The party is tomorrow evening.
My appointment was yesterday.

We use the verb form "is" for the future and 
("tomorrow") and "was" for the past ("yesterday").

3. Time markers
Learn how to use "this", "next" and "last" to refer 
to a specific time period

this
I have an appointment this afternoon.
The office is closed this afternoon.
The phrase "this afternoon" refers to the present afternoon.

Here's a tip!
We can use the word “this” to specify a time period near 
to now, e.g. “this morning” (this morning) and “this week” (this week).

What time do they open this morning?
Can I book a table for this afternoon, please?
What are you doing this week?

What are you doing tonight?
What are you doing this evening?

The time phrases "tonight" and "this evening" can refer 
to the same time of day.

next
My appointment is next week.

We can refer to a point in time after now using "next", 
e.g. "next Monday" or "next week".

To talk about the day after today, we just use "tomorrow", 
e.g. "tomorrow morning".

What time are you free next Monday?
I have an appointment tomorrow morning.

I'll book a table for next Monday.
I am available tomorrow morning.

last
Her appointment was last month.

What did you do last night?
The phrase "last night" refers to the previous night(before today).

In spoken English, "last night" and "yesterday evening" 
can mean the same thing.

The same applies to "tonight" and "this evening". 
The time phrases "tonight / last night" are slightly more 
colloquial than "this evening / yesterday evening".

What did you do last night? = What did you do yesterday evening?
The shop is closed tonight. = The shop is closed this evening.

What did they do last night?
Did you have an appointment yesterday?
What are you doing this evening?
What are you doing next weekend?

4. Negative forms of "have"
Learn how to use "haven't" and "don't have" in a sentence

I don't have an appointment.
The speaker uses the negative form "don't have" 
to say there aren't any available appointment

I don't have an appointment today.
We use the form "don't have" with the pronoun "I".

She doesn't have any available spots this week.

My doctor doesn't have any available appointments.
We don't have an appointment this morning.

We don't have a free spot this morning.
We haven't got any available appointments today.

I haven't got a free spot this afternoon.
The contraction "haven't" is formed with the words 
"have" and "not" put together.

She hasn't got an appointment this Monday.

Remember that in the UK, many people tend to use the forms 
"have / has got" and "haven't / hasn't got" to talk about 
what they have and don't have.

In North America, people tend to use the forms "have / 
has" and "don't / doesn't have".

US English 🇺🇸
We don't have anything for today.

UK English 🇬🇧
We haven't got anything for today.

My mom hasn't got an appointment next week.
He doesn't have an available appointment tomorrow.

The form "hasn't got" is commonly used in the UK and 
"doesn't have" is commonly used in the US.

My doctor doesn't have any appointments this week.

We don't have an appointment tomorrow.
I haven't got any free spots this morning.
We haven't got anything available tomorrow.
I haven't got a free spot this afternoon.

5. An avatar
Talking about appointments
Learn vocabulary to talk about appointments

to make an appointment
I'd like to make an appointment.
I'd like to make an appointment for next week.

to cancel an appointment
I'd like to cancel an appointment.

We use the verb "to cancel" to stop a scheduled appointment.
I'd like to cancel my appointment, please.

Could I cancel my appointment, please?

to confirm an appointment
I'd like to confirm an appointment.
The speaker used the verb "to confirm" to say 
that she can still go to her appointment.

I'd like to confirm my appointment for tomorrow afternoon.
We use the verb "to confirm" to check that 
an appointment is still happening.

He'd like to confirm his appointment for this Tuesday.
We use the verb "to confirm" to check that 
an appointment is still happening.

to postpone an appointment
She'd like to postpone her appointment.
We use the verb "to postpone" to say that we want 
to move an appointment to a later day or time.

Would you like to postpone your appointment?
I'd like to postpone my appointment to next week.

We can use possessive pronouns ("my", "his", etc.) with 
the verbs "to cancel / to confirm / to postpone my 
appointment".

However, we don't use possessive pronouns with the phrase 
"to make an appointment".

I'd like to cancel my appointment. 
She'd like to confirm her appointment. 
He'd like to postpone his appointment. 
I'd like to make an appointment.

Could I make an appointment for next week?
Could I confirm my appointment for next Monday?

Would you like to cancel your appointment at 6 o'clock?
We can use a possessive pronoun to refer to cancelling 
an appointment ("your appointment at 6pm").

5. Prepositions of time
Talk about different points in time

at
My appointment is at 10 o'clock.
His appointment is at 2 o'clock.
We use the preposition "at" before the time, e.g. "2 o´clock".

The preposition "at"

We use the preposition "at" to talk about a specific time.
Notice that we also use the preposition "at" to talk 
about nighttime, e.g. "at night" or "at midnight".

His appointment is at 5 pm.
What do you do at night?
I usually go to bed at midnight.

in
Her appointment is in the morning.
Do you have an appointment in the morning?

We use the preposition "in" with parts of the day 
like morning and afternoon.

The preposition "in"

We use the preposition "in" to talk about parts of the 
day. For example, "in the morning", "in the afternoon" and 
"in the evening".

However, notice that we use the preposition "at" 
when we talk about nighttime ("at night").

He's available in the morning.
Do you have an appointment in the afternoon?

The office isn't open in the evening.
We like to watch TV at night.

I have an appointment in the morning, but I am free at 6 pm.

His appointment is on Monday.
We use the preposition "on" with specific dates and days of the week.

The preposition "on"
We use the preposition "on" to talk about specific dates 
and days of the week.

We have an appointment on Tuesday.
The party is on September 25th.

Could I confirm my appointment on January 5th?
We use the preposition "on" to talk about specific dates \and days of the week.

at midnight
in the afternoon
on January 1st

She loves listening to music at night.

I'd like to cancel my appointment at 9 o'clock.
We don't have any available slots in the evening.
My mom has an appointment on Wednesday.

We don't have any available slots in the morning.
Our appointment is on March 12th.

6. Making and cancelling appointments
Understand people talking about appointments

Receptionist:
Good afternoon, this is Dr. Smith's office. How can I help you?

Patient:
Hello, I'd like to make an appointment for next week please.

Receptionist:
Sure, which day do you prefer?

Patient:
Do you have any available spots on Tuesday?

Receptionist:
Yes, we do. Do you prefer the morning or the afternoon?

Patient:
I prefer the morning please.

Receptionist:
How about Tuesday at 10 o'clock in the morning?

Patient:
That would be perfect. Thank you.

Receptionist:
Great! Your appointment is on Tuesday at 10 o'clock. See you then!


Patient:
Good morning. I have an appointment on March 3rd at 
4 o'clock. I'd like to postpone my appointment, please.

Receptionist:
Sure, no problem. What day do you prefer?

Patient:
Do you have any available appointments next Monday?

Receptionist:
Sorry, we don't have anything available, 
but we have a free slot on Friday.

Patient:
What time is the available slot on Friday?

Receptionist:
It is on Friday at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.

Patient:
That would be perfect!

Receptionist:
Okay, I will change your appointment to Friday 
at 2 o'clock in the afternoon.

7. Developing fluency
Make an appointment

I'd like to make an appointment next week.
We use the word "next" to talk about a time in the near future.
I'd like an appointment on Monday at 1 o'clock.

I'd like to make an appointment this afternoon.

Do you have any available appointments on Tuesday?
Do you have a free spot tomorrow?

Good afternoon. Do you have any available appointments?
Are there any free spots on September 1st at 11 o'clock?












































































































































