Chapter 9: Greetings and congratulations

1. Celebrating occasions

Learn phrases to say on special occasions

Congratulations
Congratulations Michael! You got the job!

He says "Congratulations!" to congratulate Michael on getting a new job.

Congratulations, Jen, on your new home!

Happy Birthday!
Happy birthday, Rita. How old are you?

We can use the word "happy" with other occasions 
to wish someone well on a special day.

Happy New Year!
Happy Valentine's Day.
Happy Mother's Day.
Happy Mother's Day, mum!

Good luck!
Good luck on your first day at work, John.
Thanks!
Cheers!
Everyone is celebrating by raising a toast.
We say "Cheers!" to raise a toast.
Congratulations, Mark and Emily. Cheers!

In the UK, the word "cheers" can also mean "thank you".
Let's say cheers!
Cheers, mum!

Thanks , Thank you, Cheers

We usually say "Good luck!" to someone 
when we wish them success (e.g. starting a new job).

Good luck! - to wish someone well
Happy birthday! - to celebrate an occasion
Cheers! - to raise a toast

2. Giving and receiving gifts
Learn to talk about types of gifts for special occasions

a present
Thanks for the present.

Congratulations, Tom! This is a present for you.
The speaker congratulates Tom and gives him a gift ("a present").

There are ten birthday presents for Alison.
The word "present" (with an "s") refers to a gift people 
receive on a special occasion.

flowers
There are some flowers for you.

Thanks for the flowers.

a greeting card
That's a greeting card.

This is a greeting card for Mother's Day.
The word "greeting" refers to what we say on special 
occasions (e.g. "Happy birthday!").

We can replace the word "greeting" with 
the specific occasion, such as "birthday".

Thanks for the greeting card.
This is a birthday card.

a gift card
This is a $40 gift card.

Thanks for the gift card, dad!

A "gift card" refers to a voucher with money inside 
to spend in a shop or online.

Happy birthday, Janet. 
This is a 10 euro gift card for you!

a gift card - a voucher with money
a greeting card - a card with a message

a hamper - မုန့်ခြင်း
This is a hamper for my colleague.

This is a hamper with many gifts.
A basket of gifts is called a "hamper".

A hamper ("a hamper") is a gift basket 
with smaller gifts inside, such as food or toiletries.

There are some flowers in the hamper.

There are four colleagues in the office today.

Kelly and Simon are colleagues.
We add an "s" at the end of the word "colleague" 
to refer to multiple ("colleagues").

When we want to talk about more than one thing, 
we can usually add an "s" to the word.

Shannon and Phil are colleagues.
Thanks for the presents.

Thanks for the presents.
We add an "s" at the end of the word "present" to make it plural.

Happy birthday, my love. This is a present for you.
We use the singular form "present" after "this is" + "a".

Congratulations, team!

We usually say these words in the plural form (with an "s" at the end).

Congratulations!
Thanks!
Cheers!

Hi Fred. Congratulations!
We usually congratulate someone by saying "Congratulations!" (with an "s".

Thanks!
We usually say "thanks" (plural) or "thank you" 
(singular), but not "thanks you".

Hi Dave, thanks for the birthday presents.
Thanks everyone. Cheers!
When raising a toast or saying thank you, 
we use the plural form "Cheers!".

There are two gift cards for Chris.
There is a Christmas card on the desk for you.

To identify something, we use "there is" and "a" with a singular noun.

We use "there are" with a plural noun (e.g. nouns that end with an "s").
Singular form
There is a present on the desk.

Plural form
There are flowers in the office.

Merry Christmas! There are some presents in the office.
There are three greeting cards for you.
There is a hamper in the office.

We can also use the negative form of the verb "to be" 
to say that something does not exist.

I'm sorry, there aren't any flowers.
Oh, there isn't cash inside the birthday card!

It is Rachel's birthday, but there aren't any presents.
There isn't a gift card in the shop.

Understanding short messages
Read and understand common congratulatory messages

Best wishes!
We use the plural form "wishes" in the greeting "Best wishes".

Lots of love
We use phrase "Lots of love" to say 
that we are sending our greeting with love.

Happy birthday, Sam. Best wishes! From Daryl.
We say "Best wishes" to express hope 
for another person's happiness or success.

In a greeting message, we can address the person using "to" and their name.
We can close the message with "lots of love" 
or "best wishes", and then write "from" + our name.

To Rachel
Lots of love
Best wishes
From Jacob

To Leanne, from Umar.
We use the word "To" with the recipient's name, and we use "from" with the

Happy birthday!
To Rita,
Happy birthday!
There is a present for you in the kitchen!
Lots of love,
from Mum

Congratulations!
To Mona,
Good luck with the new job!
Best wishes,
Ursula and the team







































































































































































