Free time

151 - Exploring sport - Talk about sports with "to play, to do, to go"

Do you play any sports?

There are three different verbs we can use when talking about sports.
We use the verb "to play" for ball sports or competitive games.

Do you play any sports?
Yes, I play football.
How often do you play tennis?
I play tennis.
to play football.

We use the verb "to go" for sports that are verbs ending in "-ing".
I'll go swimming tomorrow.
She goes running in the morning.
I go swimming.
Do you want to go swimming tomorrow?
I go running in the morning.
I go running.

Finally, we can use the verb "to do" with all other recreational activities or 
non-team sports.
She does yoga every Tuesday.
My son does karate at school.
She does yoga every Tuesday.
I do yoga.
My son does karate at school.
I do karate.

Do you remember?
to play + football, tennis
to go + swimming, running
to do + yoga, karate

Do they play football?
I go swimming once a week.
She does karate.
We sometimes play football together.
We never play football.
We use "to go" with "-ing" verbs when talking about sports.
I go swimming on Wednesday.
I go running in the morning.
She does yoga every Tuesday.
He does karate in the evening.

What do you usually do after work?

Maria
Every Tuesday I go swimming near the office. Sometimes, I also go running with 
a friend and then we usually eat out.

Nick
Cool! Do you play any other sports?

Maria
Well, I love playing football but I'm not very good. Actually, I'm looking for 
someone to play with, do you...

Nick
Me? Oh no, sorry! I don't do any sports!

152 - Forming "wh" questions - Learn how to ask questions

We can use the following five words beginning with "wh-" to ask questions in English.

Who - to ask about a person / people
When - to ask about a time
Where - to ask about a place
Why - to ask about a reason
What - to ask about a thing / specific information
Which - to ask about one thing in a specific group

Who is coming?
When are you leaving?
Where do you go swimming?
Why do you get up early?
What are you doing?

We have already looked at how to form questions in various different ways.
These questions can be answered with "yes" or "no".

 She is happy.			Is she happy?
 You are living in France.	Are you living in France?
They play football.		Do they play football?

We can simply add one of the "wh" words we've just seen to the beginning of a 
question to ask about something more specific.
"Wh" questions can't be answered with "yes" or "no".
Do they play football?
Where do they play football?
When do they play football?
When do you go running?
What are you doing?

Who is coming?		Hayley and Jessie.
When are you playing?	At 7pm.
What are you doing?	I am working.

When do you do yoga?
Why are you stressed?
When do you go swimming?
What sports do you do?
What are you doing?
Where does he live?
Who is playing?

153 - Pronunciation: read or lead - Practise the sounds /r/ and /l/ in common English words

Can you hear the different consonants at the start of these words?

Pronunciation: /r/ and /l/

We are going to compare two consonant sounds, the /r/ sound in the word 
"really" and the /l/ sound in the word "like". You already know lots of words 
that contain these consonants, and by the end of this lesson it will be much 
easier for you to recognise and pronounce them!

Take a look at some more examples before we hear them:

/r/ sound		really, run, fries, room
/l/ sound		like, long, flies, love

/r/
1. Place your tongue close to the top of your mouth.
2. Curl the sides of your tongue and pull it back slightly so that it touches 
the top of your mouth.

/l/
1. Press the tip of your tongue against the back of your top front teeth.

Ella is reading.
Did you buy the light coloured shorts?
I really like ice cream.
I lead a book club. We read one book a month.
I hate long flights.
My dad ran a red light.

/r/ and /l/
/l/
1. Press the tip of your tongue against the back of your top front teeth.
/r/
1. Place your tongue close to the top of your mouth, touching the inside of 
your side teeth.
2. Push your lips slightly away from your face

I have a light for reading.
I really like cooking.
The children have a playroom.

12.4 - London Central: Episode 5 - Watch Leo get ready for work

I am late. It is 8am. Where is my uniform?
This is mine.
These shoes are mine.
That is yours.
Those shorts are yours.

We like to use fewer words when we speak, so we use "mine", yours, "his" etc.
When you don't want to repeat the object all the time (e.g. "my hat", "your 
hat"), we can just say "That's mine." 😁
We can do the same with someone's name by adding "'s" at the end, e.g. "That's Anna's."
"This shirt is mine."
"That dress is yours."

That is my... hat.
That hat is... mine.
This white top is Sarah's and this blue one is mine.
That's Anna's.
That isn't yours.
These are mine?

It is Thursday the twenty-second of November.
You work Monday, Tuesday, Friday, Saturday. You don’t work on Thursday.
I’m sorry about him. He is horrible sometimes.
I am late. It is 8am. Where is my uniform?

154 - Review - A quick review of recent lessons

I always get up early.
He loves playing the violin. 

never rarely sometimes often always

I prefer eating out at the weekend.
How often do you play tennis?
Marco does yoga every weekend.
Where do you go swimming, Scarlet?
Sam does karate every week on Thursday.
What do you fancy for dinner?
How often do you practise|practice the piano, Elisa?
I enjoy reading|swimming|running in my free time.
I never|rarely|often|sometimes|always go to the gym.

My flatmate hates cooking.
My brother and I go swimming at the weekend.
I usually go to the gym in the morning.
He gets up early during the week.
She gets home late on Fridays.

We don't often eat out.
What do you like doing?
I prefer watching movies.
My sister goes swimming in the local pool.
We go swimming in summer.
Jerome does karate on Wednesday evenings.
My kids do yoga at school once a week.
Layla doesn't play tennis, but she does karate.
I usually go running and play tennis.
I really like ice cream.