Chapter 8  Places around town

8.1 - Asking for directions - Ask for help and respond to questions

We are now going to learn how to ask for directions. Look at the examples below.

Q: Excuse me. Can you help me? I'm looking for Grand Central Station.
A: Yes, I can!

Can you help me? - We can use this question to ask for help.
Excuse me.
Where's the nearest ATM?
Where is the nearest shop?
Excuse me. Can you help me?
I'm looking for the train station.
Where is the nearest hotel?
I'm trying to find the train station.
I'm trying to find...
Yes, I can. No, I can't.
Can you help me? Yes, I can.
I'm not sure.
Where is the nearest hotel? I'm not sure.
I'm looking for the nearest cafe.
Where is the nearest hotel?
I'm trying to find the nearest train station.

8.2 - Exploring the city - Name places around town

Where's the nearest supermarket?
Is there a cashpoint near here?
I'm looking for a shop.
The pharmacy is at the station.
Is your hotel in the centre?
I'm trying to find the metro station.

Peter
Excuse me, can you help  me?

Passerby
Sure.

Peter
I'm trying to find the nearest supermarket

Passerby
Right. Go straight ahead for 3 minutes.

Peter
Thank you. Is it next to  the Grand Hotel?

Passerby
No. Actually, it's not far from  the metro station.

Peter
Oh, I see. Great.

I'm looking for a cashpoint.
I'm trying to find a pharmacy.
Can you help me? I'm trying to find my hotel.
I'm trying to find a supermarket.

8.3 - Prepositions of place and movement - Describe location

Prepositions of place
We use prepositions of place to say where people and things are.
The cup is on the table.
My pens are in my pencil case.
The hotel is next to the beach.
The books are on the table.
Their toys are in the box.
There are some apples on the table.
My cat sleeps in my bedroom.
There is a mirror on the wall.

in - position inside a container or place
on - position on a surface

What's the difference between "in" and "at"?
We just learned about "in" and "on" - the two most common prepositions of place.

Now let's look at "at". We use both "in" and "at" to describe a position within a larger place, but in some contexts "in" can be more specific than "at". Compare the following:

Let's meet in the café. (in = inside the café)
Let's meet at the café. (at = doesn't specify whether the meeting point is inside or outside the café)

I meet you at the airport
This bus stops at the library.

** What else do I need to know about "at"? **

Sometimes we use "at" to specify a precise location within a larger place. We also use at in a few fixed expressions, like "at home".

I'm at the ticket counter.
Do we order drinks at the bar or at our table?
She has lunch at home.
I spend all day at work.
You pay for your shopping at the checkout.
Hey, I'm here! I've got a table by the window.
The salt is next to the pepper.

Using "by" and "next to"
These two prepositions have more or less the same meaning. Read these examples:
He lives in a small house by the river.
He lives in a small house next to the river.
The spoons are between the knives and forks
The presents are under the tree.

How to use "between" and "under"
Let's learn two more prepositions of place! We use "between" to describe the position of something in the middle of two other things. And "under" is the opposite of "on".

Spring is the season between winter and summer.
I put my suitcase under the bed.

Let's read!
Now let's try reading a short text that includes all the words we've just learned!
You will also see a few words you might not know yet, these are listed below:

hairbrush (a brush for your hair)
desk (a table used for doing work)
backpack (a bag you wear on your back, usually for school)
to tidy (to clean or organise)

His clothes are on the floor
*************************************
Paolo is at home. He is listening to music in his bedroom. He is sitting on his bed. His cat is sitting next to him. There is a small table by the bed. A drink and a phone are on the table. Paolo's hairbrush is between the small table and the desk. His clothes are on the floor. His backpack is under his clothes. Paolo really needs to tidy his room!

Most of the toys are in the box, but four toys are on the floor.
I live in a house by the river.
She's in the bathroom.
Let's put it on the shelf.
Come and sit next to me!
The red peppers are between the tomatoes and the cauliflower.
My dog always sits under the table at lunchtime.

8.4 - Understanding phone numbers - Learn sequences of numbers

Could I have two coffees, please?
Can I book a table for four, please?
Could I have one coffee, please?
Do you have a table for seven?
Can we have three glasses of water, please?
Can I have eight coffees, please?

Q: What's your phone number?
A: It's 0713490763.

It's also common to say the "zero" in a telephone number as the letter "o". Listen to the audio on the next page.

8.5 - Pronunciation: for, phone, enough - Explore the /f/ sound and its many spellings in common English words

The IPA symbol /f/ represents the sound you hear. You don't have to memorise the symbol, but you will see it a few times in this lesson.
phone, enough

Pronunciation: /f/
The sound /f/ is often represented by the letter "f" (as in "for"). However, it can also be spelled in other ways, such as "ph" and "gh" (as in "phone" and "enough").
phone, enough, coffee, for

/f/
1. The inside of your bottom lip touches your top front teeth.
2. Push air through your mouth.

Here are some possible spellings of the /f/ sound and some examples:
f: for, from, first
ff: coffee, off, stuff
ph: phone, photo, physics, phrase
gh: enough, laugh, cough

I have a new phone number.

"Off" contains the /f/ sound but "of" does not.
I don't feel well. I have a cough.

off, phone, laugh - contains the /f/ sound
of, put, lag - does not contain the /f/ sound

I'm studying physics at school.
James has a day off.
My stuff is on my desk.
Jennifer is laughing.
She's from Finland.
I'm a photographer.
I was coughing all night!
I need to speak to a member of staff.

8.6 - Developing fluency - Practise asking for directions

Can you help me? Yes, I can.
Where's the nearest hotel? It's beside the station.
Can you help me? I'm trying to find the station.
I'm looking for somewhere I can buy food. - When we are looking for somewhere, we can say "I'm looking for...".
Where's the station?