Hobbies


141 Describing likes and dislikes - Talk about what you like doing in your free time

What do you like doing?
I like reading books

Did you notice? In the sentence "She likes reading.", the verbs "to like" and 
"to read" are next to each other.
When we combine two verbs like this, we put the first verb in the present 
simple, and the second verb in the "-ing" form.

She likes reading.
I like cooking.
I love cooking
I like eating out.
He loves playing the violin.
I love playing the guitar.

To form negatives with phrases like these, we simply add "don't" or "doesn't" 
before the opinion verb ("like" or "love").
Don't forget: When we form negatives with the verb "to do", we leave our main 
verb in its original form (meaning that we do not add an "s").

I don't like playing the violin.
She doesn't love reading.
We don't like eating out.
We like watching movies on Sundays.
She loves reading.
I love reading.
What do you like doing?
She doesn't like|does not like reading.
I love cooking after work.
He doesn't like playing the violin.
They love playing the violin.
I don't like eating out at the weekend.

142 - Verb patterns - Learn some words about hobbies and write about yours

I like playing the piano.
We love listening to music.
She hates watching horror movies.
I hate watching horror movies.
I prefer cooking in the week.
We enjoy watching old movies together.
I fancy cooking lasagne tonight.

The verb "to fancy" is used to say that you feel like doing a certain activity at a specific moment in time.

We use this word all the time in English, so it will really come in handy in conversation!
I fancy studying French next year.
She fancies watching a movie tonight.
I don't fancy cooking tonight. Let's go out to dinner.

When we place two verbs together, we use this structure:
main verb + "-ing"
I fancy cooking tonight.
She likes watching movies.
We love eating out.
He loves cooking.
He loves playing the violin.
They prefer eating out.
She fancies watching a movie tonight.

When we form negatives with phrases like this, the verb "to do" changes to 
match the pronoun. The other verb in the sentence (the main verb) remains in 
its original form. Have a look at the examples below.
I don't like cooking after work.
He doesn't like playing the violin.
I don't enjoy eating out at the weekend.
She doesn't like watching horror movies.
She doesn't fancy eating out tonight.
I don't enjoy eating out at the weekend.
We love listening to music.
She loves reading.
I fancy eating out on Friday.
Pablo doesn't like cleaning|does not like cleaning.
We prefer reading in the living room.
She doesn't fancy|does not fancy cooking tonight.
Carla enjoys reading.
We prefer eating out at the weekend.
Clara doesn't enjoy playing|does not enjoy playing the violin.

143 - Pronunciation: coat, though, go - Practise the vowel sound /oʊ/ in 
common English words

go, note (/oʊ/)
Pronunciation: /oʊ/

Let's now focus on how we pronounce the vowel sound /oʊ/. This sound appears 
in words such as "coat" and "so". It is a combination of two vowel sounds, 
which is why it can be tricky to produce.

Let's learn how we produce the sound!

Pronunciation: /oʊ/
**************************
Let's now focus on how we pronounce the vowel sound /oʊ/. This sound appears 
in words such as "coat" and "so". It is a combination of two vowel sounds, 
which is why it can be tricky to produce.

Let's learn how we produce the sound!

As we've already seen, spelling does not always correspond to sounds in 
English. The /oʊ/ vowel sound can be written in various different ways.
It's easy to mix up the /oʊ/ sound in "though" with the vowel sound in words 
like "thought" and "taught" which have different pronunciations in both 
British and American English.
It might seem confusing now, but the more you hear and read English words, the 
more aware you will become of these differences!

/oʊ/ sound: although, though, go, no, coat, although, hope, note, toe
different vowel sounds: thought, taught, through
I go swimming on Tuesdays.
I run through the park.
I would like a new coat.
He has ten toes.

/oʊ/
Starting position
1. Drop your jaw slightly
2. Shift the middle of your tongue back in your mouth a little
Ending position
1. Round your lips
2. Press the front of your tongue down

I hope that's not my coat!
I hurt my toe.

144 - London Central: Episode 4 - Watch Leo talk to Anna about his appearance

I have long, blonde hair.
I have brown eyes.
You have brown eyes.

We use "have" to describe the face and body, for example "I have blonde hair".
We usually mention the length and colour of hair.
👁️
You have brown eyes.
I have blue eyes.
She has green eyes.
💇‍♀️
He has long, blonde hair.
I have short, brown hair.
You have black hair.

The average height for women in England is 165 cm.

Some other parts of the body we can describe are the face, skin, arms and legs.
We put the adjective before the body part!
👶 I like your pretty face.
🤲 You have soft skin.
🧔‍♂️ I like your brown beard.
🦵 I have long legs.
💪 You have strong arms.

You have bad hair. You are short. You have thin legs.

I like dark hair, brown eyes, average height, no beard, maybe some little arm muscles.
I really like picnics in the park.
Dan hates playing video games.
They prefer cooking to eating out.
We prefer reading to watching movies.