Time and money

9.1 - Going clothes shopping - Useful phrases for shopping

What time do you open?

You can also say "Do you have any...?". This expression is similar in meaning 
to "Do you sell...?".

Do you have any shirts?
Do you have anything cheaper?
Do you have any roses?
I'm looking for a white shirt.
I'll take these shoes.
I'll take this top.

To ask about the price you can say "How much is it?" or "How much is this?".
How much is this coat?
How much is this?
It's $25.

When telling you how much you need to pay, the shop assistant might say:
That comes to £30.
That's £95 altogether.
That's $48.50 in total.
That will be $60, please.
That comes to $50, please.
We are closed on Sundays.
The supermarket is open until 11pm.
We're open until 9pm.
How much is this?
Could I have this dress?
That comes to £39.
What time do you open?
Do you sell clothes?
Do you sell|Do you have any winter clothes?
That is|That's|That will be $40 altogether, please.

9.2 - Asking about prices - Useful phrases for shopping and asking about prices

We open at 11am on Sundays.
This shirt is £15.

Bella
Excuse me, how much is  this shirt?

Shop assistant
It's 29$.

Bella
Oh, ok. What about this one?

Shop assistant
That shirt is 15$.

Bella
Great, thanks. I'll take this one and that hat, please.

Shop assistant
Sure. That'll be 44$ altogether, please.

-------------------------
That's £100 altogether, please.
The house is 100 years old.
The dress is £35 (thirty-five pounds) and the shirt is £19 (nineteen pounds).

9.3 - Demonstrative adjectives and pronouns - Learn how to use "this", "that", "these", "those"

We use "this", "that", "these" and "those" to talk about specific objects / 
people. First let's focus on "this" and "that". "This" refers to something 
that is nearby, and "that" usually refers to something that is further away.

How much is this jacket?
I'll take that bag, please.
That dress is $40.

We use "these" and "those" to refer to groups of objects or people. "These" refers to things that are nearby, and "those" refers to things that are further away.

I'll take these shoes, please. The shoes are nearby.
I'll take those socks, please. The socks are further away
How much are those shoes?
I'll take these jeans, please.

Here's a recap of how we use "this", "that", "these" and "those".

Number of objects / people		Nearby		Further away
1					this		that
More than 1				these		those

these clothes
that shop
those girls

"This", "that", "these" and "those" don't always have to come before a person 
or object in a sentence. To avoid repetition, they can replace it altogether. 
In each example below, the second sentence is much more natural.

Is this bag your bag? Is this your bag? (more natural)
Those keys are my keys! Those are my keys! (more natural)

How much is that?
These are $30.
This is your table.
Is this your friend?
How much does that bag cost?
That comes to £14, please.
Who are those people?
How much are these?
Can I have this dress, please?
Are those your keys?
Those are $4 each.
I'll take these jeans, please.
How much are those|these?
That|This costs $40.

9.3 - Telling the time - Give the time of day

What's the time?

In English, we use the 12-hour, or "meridiem", clock. This means that we separate our day into two twelve-hour sections.

It's twelve o'clock in the morning.
It's twelve o'clock in the afternoon.
It's 5 o'clock.
It's half past nine.
It's quarter past five.
It's quarter past seven.
It's quarter to six.

The words "to" and "past" indicate whether a time is before or after the hour. 
Look at the examples below.
4.25 - It's twenty-five past four.
3.35 - It's twenty-five to four.
8.10 - It's ten past eight.
7.50 - It's ten to eight.

It's twenty past nine.
It is twenty-five past nine .
It's quarter|a quarter to nine.
It's half past|30 minutes|thirty minutes|half four.
What's the time?

9.4 - Time markers - Explore time markers and periods of time

We are open 7 days a week.
What are you doing Friday night?
It's my birthday in two weeks!
There are seven "days" in a "week".
Can I book a table for 2 o'clock today, please?
His birthday was yesterday.
Are you open tomorrow?
It's 6 o'clock in the morning!
Sorry, the kitchen is closed in the afternoon.
What do you do in the evening?

If we want to talk specifically about today, we can use the word "this" followed by "morning / afternoon / evening".

What time do they open this morning?
Can I book a table for this afternoon, please?
What are you doing this evening?
The shop is closed this afternoon.

What do we say to talk about the current or coming night? tonight

We can use some of these words together to talk about other periods of time 
in the past and in the future. Look at the examples below. Can you spot the 
exception to the rule?

yesterday morning, yesterday afternoon, yesterday evening, last night
tomorrow morning, tomorrow afternoon, tomorrow evening, tomorrow night


What did you do last night
The party is tomorrow evening.

Did you know? In spoken English,"last night" and "yesterday evening" can mean 
the same thing. The same applies to "tonight" and "this evening". "Tonight / 
last night" are slightly more colloquial than "this evening / yesterday evening".

What did you do last night? = What did you do yesterday evening?
The shop is closed tonight. = The shop is closed this evening.
What time do they open this morning?
What are you doing Friday night?
There are seven days in a week.
Are you open tomorrow?
What are you doing this evening?
It's my birthday in two weeks!
What do you do in the evening?
What did you do last night?
Sorry, the kitchen is closed in the afternoon.

9.5 -  Prepositions of time - Talk about different points in time

My meeting is at 10 a.m. today.

We use the preposition "at" to discuss clock times, holidays and other specific time frames.
at 5 o'clock
at Christmas, at Easter
at the moment

I stay with my family at Christmas.
I finish at 3 o'clock today.
The shop is closed at the moment.

We also say "at breakfast", "at lunch" and "at dinner".
I'm busy at breakfast but I'm free at lunch.
I don't work on Tuesdays.

We use the preposition "on" with days of the week or any specific dates.

My birthday is on the 5th of October.
My interview is on Monday at 11 a.m.
On my birthday we always go to a restaurant.

on New Year's Day

My birthday is in June.
We use the preposition "in" with months, seasons, years and longer periods of time.

in the morning / in the afternoon / in the evening
in December / in June
in spring / in summer / in autumn / in winter
in 2006

When we talk about parts of the day, we say "in the morning", "in the 
afternoon", and "in the evening". But notice that we say "at night".

She studies in the morning.
She works in the afternoon.
She watches TV in the evening.
She sleeps at night.

in autumn
There are 30 days in June.

We also say "in the past" and "in the future".
I'd like to live in London in the future.

at 7a.m
on Tuesday
in 2019

I get up at 6 am every morning.
London is very busy at Christmas.
The shop is closed at the moment.
Can we meet on Monday at 5 pm?
What do you usually do on Valentine's Day?
There are 30 days in June.

at	clock time / holidays
on	days / dates
in	seasons / years

Here are some other ways to talk about when something happens. 
Notice that we don't use prepositions with these words.
We don't use a preposition with "next / last / this / every".
next week
last night
this morning
every day

This weekend we go on holiday.
Can we meet on Monday at 5 p.m.?
We have a meeting at lunch.
I go shopping at the weekend.
I'm busy at the moment.
On Sunday all the shops are closed.
I'm on holiday in June.

9.5 - Review  - A quick review of recent lessons

Hello there. Is this frankie?
Could I book a table for two, please?
Straight on for five minutes and it is on the right, near the metro station.

The next question is about two-digit numbers. 
Don't forget, when we write out a two-digit number, 
we add a hyphen in between the two parts of the number. 
Look at the examples below.
forty-seven
ninety-one
twenty-four

It comes to thirty-nine euros altogether.
We open at 11am on Sundays.
Could I book a table for seventeen people|a table for 17 people, please?
That will be 70|seventy dollars altogether, please.
Could I book a table for 6.45pm on Tuesday, please?
Do you sell running shoes?
Where are the shoes?
How much is this jacket?
How much are those shoes?
How much is this shirt?