Everyday life

11.1 Giving your age - Learn numbers 13 to 19

How old are you?
I'm eighteen.
I'm fifteen years old.

To say our age we can use "I'm..." or "I'm ... years old."
They mean the same thing, but you will usually hear "I'm... (eighteen)."

I'm eighteen = I'm eighteen years old.

How old is your sister?
My sister's thirteen years old.
My sister's thirteen years old.
How old is he?
Our son's fifteen|15.

I'm twenty years old.
He's thirty.
Our sister's forty.
My mom's fifty years old.
I'm thirty-four.
My dad's a hundred.

11.2 - Talking about everyday life - Learn about activities at work and at home

What are you doing?
I'm going to work. See you later!
Tom is working from home today.

When we talk about a "house" we are talking about the actual building. 
However, the word "home" refers to the place where you live (whether it be a 
house or a flat) or the place where you come from like the word "hometown".
I am going home.
I'm staying at home.
London is my home.

He's staying at home today because he's ill.
to stay at home - This means "to stay in".

We're cooking lunch with some friends.
He's cleaning the bathroom.
They're making dinner in the kitchen.
I'm tired. I'm going to bed now.

Here are a couple of idiomatic expressions you can use with the word "home". 
Try and use one when you next speak to a native English speaker!
Make yourself at home.
Home sweet home.
to make a house a home

What are you doing?
I'm tired. I'm going to bed now.
I'm going to work. See you later!

to clean the house
I'm cooking|making dinner|cooking dinner|making food|preparing food|making 
lunch|cooking lunch in the kitchen.

11.3 The present continuous - Learn to use the present continuous

We're now going to learn how to use the present continuous. We use this tense 
to talk about temporary actions and things that are happening at the time of 
speaking, like in the examples below.

I'm looking for my wallet.
They're working from home today.
I'm staying at an apartment near the station at the moment.

We form the present continuous like this:
form of "to be" + verb + "ing"

He is cooking dinner for his partner.
They are going to the supermarket.
I can't go to the cinema now, I'm studying.
They are eating their dinner at the moment.

Some verbs normally end in an "e". When we use these verbs in the present 
continuous, we remove the "e" before we add the "ing".

Infinitive		Present continuous
I leave			I am leaving
she lives		she is living
it closes		it is closing

He is reading in his bedroom.

We form negatives in the present continuous like this:
form of "to be" + "not" + verb + "ing"

I'm not having a great time. Can we go home?
He's not reading a book at the moment.
We're not cooking this evening. We're going out for dinner!
I'm not enjoying this book.

When we form questions in the present continuous, we simply take the verb and 
place it at the beginning of the sentence, like this:
He is having the lasagne. - Is he having the lasagne?
They're studying medicine at university. - Are they studying medicine at university?
Are they studying science in school?
Are you learning to drive?

Hannah
What are you doing today, Lucas?

Lucas
I'm just going to the supermarket. Let's have dinner together later!

Hannah
That sounds great. Do you want to go out for dinner or cook?

Lucas
I'm really enjoying cooking, at the moment. Let's do that. What are you doing?

Hannah
I'm just opening the shop. I should go actually. See you later!

He is going to the supermarket.
What are you doing today?
Oh, he is not working today.

Don't forget, when we use verbs that normally end in an "e" in the present 
continuous, we remove the "e" before we add the "ing".
I am having dinner with some friends tonight.
We are not working today.
Are you enjoying your holiday?
They're living with me, at the moment!

11.4 - London Central: Episode 3 - Watch Janet get ready before Leo goes to his lesson

a red hat, a blue shirt, a yellow jacket, a green dress, black shoes, 
white trousers
We wear red and blue shirts.
Janet wears a green top, red trousers and a blue hat.
I have black shoes and white trousers.

We say the colour before the object. The object can be singular or plural and 
the name of the colour never changes!

For example, we say "a red hat" and "red shoes".
❤️👠 red shoes
🧡🩳 orange shorts
💛🧥 a yellow jacket
Pink is better. Very beautiful.

11.4 - Describing possessions - Talk about essential personal items

She has a new phone.
Can I use your phone?

"Phone" can refer to any type of phone, whether it's portable or not. When we 
talk about portable phones, we say "mobile (phone)" in British English, and 
"cell (phone)" in American English.

Universal: Where is my phone?
British English: Can I use your mobile?
American English: Can you pass me my cell?

Do you have my bag?
I'm looking for my keys.
Where is my cell? - "Cell" means the same as "mobile phone".
Those are cool glasses.
I don't have a computer.
I'm reading a really good book.
Don't forget your wallet.
I'm looking for my keys.
I can't find my cell.
I use my computer for work.

It's quiet here today.
He is making an apple crumble.
Apple crumble is a British dessert which is often served with custard, cream or ice cream.
She's cool! - When we say that somebody is "cool", we mean he / she is "fine".

When we talk about something happening at the moment, we use the present continuous.
What are you doing today?
She's reading in the living room.
He is very busy with his friends.
She is reading in the living room .
I'm staying at home today because I'm ill.
Dad is making us dinner. - We form the present continuous with the verb "to be" and the verb + "-ing".
 
What are you doing? I'm going to bed.
What is Shania doing? She's staying at home.
I'm cooking at the moment.
They are looking for their bags.
Jonah is cleaning his glasses.
We are cleaning the kitchen.
I am working from home today.
Are you learning to drive?
I'm cooking|making dinner|cooking dinner|making food|preparing food|making 
lunch|cooking lunch in the kitchen.
Are you enjoying your holiday?
They're living with me, at the moment!