Jobs

6.1 - Describing your job - Talk about your occupation

What do you do?

I work in...
I work in a restaurant.
* We say "I work in a" + place of work, and "I work in" + a field of work.

When talking about a place we work in, we say:
"I work in" + "a" + place of work.
I work in a restaurant.
She works in an office.
We work in a shop.

The feminine form of "waiter" is "waitress".
You may also hear the word "server" in the US.

My boyfriend works in marketing.

When we are talking about a field of work, we say:
"I work in" + field of work.
He works in marketing.
She works in finance.
I work in tech. (I work in tech.)
My wife works in finance.

marketing
To say our profession, we use "I work in" + profession. "Marketing" is a profession.

As we’ve just seen, when we talk about our place or field of work,
we say “I work in…“. 
However, when we give our job title we use the verb “to be”, so we say:
I'm a teacher.
You're a doctor.
Are you a designer?
We're students!

unemployed
He's unemployed.

Oliver says "I work in a café and I'm also a student", 
so he does both things at the same time.

I work in marketing.
We're doctors.

I work in finance.
I'm a teacher.

We use "I'm a / an" + job title (teacher), 
but "I work in" + profession (finance).

She's a designer.
Remember, we need to use the article "a" or "an" 
before a job title, e.g. "She's a designer."

What do you do?
This question is asking about someone's work or education.

-------------------
6.2 - Exploring different professions - Talk about your work experience

In this unit, we're going to take another look at the verbs "to do" and "to work", 
as well as introduce the verb "to study". Look at the examples below.

She works in marketing.
Do you work in finance?
I study French at university.

to study
We study medicine at university.

These three verbs all remain the same, except when they are paired with "he/she":
I + do / work / study
you + do / work / study
he / she + does / works / studies
we + do / work / study
they + do / work / study

I'm a student. I study German.
What does he do?
They do not speak Spanish.
She works in finance.
* "finance" is a profession, so we use the structure "I work in + profession".
They do not|don't work in a cafe.
I work in a restaurant.
He does not work in finance.
My sister studies German, too!
He works in a restaurant.
Do you study Russian?

----------------------
6.3 - Pronunciation: cat, sad, and - Practise the vowel sound /æ/ in common English words

We are going to explore a common sound that can be difficult for English learners. 
Keep going even if you can't produce the sound at first! We'll prepare you in three stages:
1. Introduction to the sound and video instructions for how to make it
2. Recognising the sound in common English words
3. Producing the sound

The IPA symbol /æ/ represents the sound you hear. 
You don't have to memorise the symbol, 
but you will see it a few times in this lesson.
man, and

Pronunciation: /æ/

We are going to focus on how to pronounce the vowel sound /æ/. 
This is the vowel sound in words such as "and" and "man". 
By the end of this lesson, you will have learned a few of the words containing this sound!

Here are some examples before we start: /æ/
sad, man, plan, cat, and

/æ/
1. Drop your jaw.
2. Pull up the corners of your mouth.
3. Keep the tip of your tongue behind your lower front teeth.
4. Your tongue fills the bottom of your mouth as you make a short sound.

I have a brown cat.

As we've seen before, spelling and sounds do not always correspond in English. 
The letter "a" is not always pronounced as /æ/. 
The spelling of the whole word can help us work out whether the word contains the /æ/ sound.

Take a look at the examples we are about to listen to.
/æ/ sound: plan, sad
different vowel sound: plane, said

"Man" contains the /æ/ vowel sound like in "and," 
but "main" contains a different vowel sound.

In the second part of this lesson we are going to practise recognising 
the /æ/ vowel sound ("man", "and") in different words and phrases.

This man loves his cat.
I know the man on the TV!
She has a new plan.

man, mad - /æ/ sound
main, made - different vowel sound

In the third part of this lesson we are going to practise producing 
the /æ/ vowel sound like in "and" and "man". 
We are going to use some contrasting vowel sounds (for example "plan"/"plane") 
to help us focus on the words with the /æ/ vowel sound.
First, let's remind ourselves how to make it!

He said he was feeling sad.
We have a new plan.
The man is on the mat.

--------------------
6.4 - Starting a new job - Watch a video about work

What do you do, Janet?
“What do you do?” is short for “what do you do for a living?”
chef, cleaner, gardener, accountant

a chef
a kitchen assistant
A kitchen assistant washes and prepares ingredients for the chef to cook.
A kitchen assistant supports the chef by washing or chopping food.

A chef... cooks food.
A kitchen assistant... prepares ingredients.

We add "-r" or "-er" to some verbs to create job titles.

Job         Person
to clean    a cleaner
to garden   a gardener
to manage   a manager

I work as a restaurant manager.
I have no job so I am unemployed.
You can work with me.
"You do them, I do them, then you do that."

Leo gets a job as a kitchen assistant.
A kitchen assistant cleans and prepares food for the chef to cook.

mistakes
Mr Rowntree makes a cutting gesture across his neck to show he would fire Leo.

It's hard work, but I like this job.
Things to do in London: 
1) get a job, 2) study every day, 3) get fit, 4) get a girlfriend.
----------------

6.5 - Review A quick review of recent lessons

In the dialogue, Jodie and Sam are talking about where they live and 
what they do. When we talk about things that are generally true, 
we use the "present simple" tense.

Do you work or study?
I live in Madrid.
My sister studies French.
She works in the city.

We’ve already seen and used this tense in previous lessons. 
To recap, here are some of the different verbs we have come across:

to study - He studies French.
to work - I work in marketing.
to speak - We speak English and Spanish.
to live - She lives in Rome.
to be - I am from Brighton.
to come from - You come from the US.

We speak Russian.
She studies Chinese.

We have also seen some of the different ways that these verbs are constructed 
and used. For example, we learned that:


1. We only change verbs in the present simple tense when we pair them with "he/she".
I work in a restaurant.
You work in a restaurant.
She works in a restaurant.
We work in a restaurant.
They work in a restaurant.

2. When we use the verb “to do” to form questions or negative sentences, 
we leave the main verb in the sentence in its original form (we don’t add "-s" / "-es").

Do you come from Spain?
Does he live in England?
Do they speak French?
He doesn't live in Germany.
Does she work in finance?
Do you speak French ?

Don't forget, in English, we often join the personal pronoun and 
verb together to make the short form. 
We do this with negatives, too. 
Have a look at the short forms in the examples below.

I am from England. - I'm from England.
She does not live in Brazil. - She doesn't live in Brazil.
I do not work in finance. - I don't work in finance.

Sam doesn't speak Spanish.
He comes from Turkey.
He lives in a town near Paris.
Does she work in a cafe?
She doesn't live in Italy.
She studies|learns German.
He doesn't like coffee.
We don't|do not live near the airport.
Do you work in marketing?
Do you work in marketing?
He works in finance.
I'm a doctor.
I'm|I am a teacher.
What do you do Lydia? I'm unemployed.
I'm a teacher. What do you do?
I'm a student.
I'm a chef. I work in a restaurant.






