The weekend

161 - Talking about your day - Answer the question "How was your day?"

How was your day?
It was fine.
My morning was so stressful.
It was lovely, thank you.
It was quite tiring.
It was really fun.
My evening was really productive!

Let's review the words we just learned before we practise them! 💬

How was your day?
It was fine.
stressful
lovely
tiring
fun
productive

It was fine|lovely|fun|productive|great|good|nice|pleasant|okay|ok|positive|
fantastic|wonderful.

My day was really tiring.
My morning was so stressful.

162 - Past simple - The verb "to be" - Use the past simple

The verb "to be" has two forms in the past simple tense: was and were.

Personal pronoun
"To be" in the past simple

I			was
you			were
he / she / it		was
we			were
they			were

I was so tired.
It was half past 3.
You were so busy this morning.
How was your day ?

To form a question, we change the word order in the sentence by placing the 
verb "to be" at the beginning. If there is a question word, we put it before 
the verb.

What / Why / Where / When / How
+
was / were
+
subject (personal pronoun / noun) ...?

Were you late this morning?
How was your evening?

How was your dinner? Was it good?
How was your evening?
Was he happy to see you?

To make the statement negative, we add "not" after "was" or "were". In speech, 
we usually shorten it using an apostrophe.
It was not late. = It wasn't late.
He was not busy. = He wasn't busy.
You were not tired. = You weren't tired.
They weren't at home yesterday. They were at the park.
You were so busy this morning.
I was quite stressed yesterday.
It was quite tiring.
Elisa was in the kitchen.
How much was it ?
Where were your glasses?
Margaret wasn't tired last night.

When we talk about actions in the past we often add time phrases to give more 
information about when the action happened.
yesterday
last night / summer / year
ages ago
in 2006

I was on holiday in Turkey last summer.
We were not|weren't at home last night.
How much were your glasses?
Where were you this morning?
I'm sorry, I was quite stressed this morning.
The party wasn't|was not fun last night.
In 2008, they were|weren't|were not at university.
Where were you this morning?

163 - Talking about the weather - Describe the weather using the past simple



It is really nice this morning.
The weather was awful!
Another way to talk about bad weather is with the word "miserable".


Try out the following expression next time you want to complain about the weather!
It was really sunny.
It's so miserable out there today!
It's often rainy in London.
It was so windy today.
There was a thunderstorm on Monday.
It was so windy today.
It was a very cold winter.
It's too hot!

We usually say "it's hot" when the temperature is uncomfortable and "it's 
warm" when it's enjoyable.
It's too hot, I can't go outside.
It's warm, let's have lunch in the park.

Oh, the weather is awful today!
It was nice this morning.
It is really nice this morning.
It is warm and sunny.
It's too hot!
It's cold.
It's often rainy in London.

164 - Developing fluency - Practise the past simple

There was a thunderstorm this morning. It was awful.
It was really sunny yesterday.
Was it sunny yesterday?
It was very windy last night.
It was rainy this morning, but it was hot this afternoon.
It was rainy and cold last week.
There was a thunderstorm today. It was really rainy!

164 - Making comparisons - Use comparative adjectives

These words ("warm", "cold") are called adjectives because they describe something.
We've used them to describe the weather in the previous lesson. Now what about 
using them to make comparisons?

London is colder than Mexico City.

To make comparisons, we need to modify the adjective and add "than" right after it.
To modify most one-syllable adjectives, we add -er (or just -r if there's 
already an "e") at the end.
cold - Moscow is colder than Rome.
nice - Your room is nicer than my room.

Your room is nicer than my room
The bathroom is smaller than the kitchen.
I'm smaller than you.

1) When an adjective ends in "y" (whatever its length) just remember to change 
the "y" to "i" before adding "er".
2) When an adjective ends in a vowel + consonant, we double the final 
consonant before adding "er".
happy - happier
big - bigger

happier, busier, lazier
He is happier than his brother.
bigger, sadder, hotter

For short adjectives:
- add -er + than
- add -ier + than if it ends in "y", and remove the "y"
- double up the consonant if it ends in "vowel + consonant" and add "er"
warm - warmer than
happy - happier than
big - bigger than
hot 	hotter than
busy	busier than
cold	colder than

Now what about 2 syllable (or more) adjectives?
Relax! The rule here is extremely simple! The same structure applies for all 
of them: "more (adjective) than"
Emma's flat is more modern than Tom's flat.
The book is more interesting than the film.
The film is more interesting than the book.
Emma's flat is more modern than Tom's flat.
Karate is more tiring than yoga.
It's warmer and more modern than Paris.

Two of the most common comparatives are irregulars. This means they don’t 
follow the normal pattern.
"Good" becomes "better than".
"Bad" becomes "worse than".
The weather is better here than in Chicago.
It is worse than his other book!

good	better
bad	worse
It is worse than his other book!
Mexico is warmer than Russia.
Rome is better than London!
The black bag is nicer than the brown bag.
It's hotter than yesterday!
Cooking is more stressful than reading.
Karate is more interesting than tennis.

165 - Upcoming plans - Talk about your plans for the near future

Diego
Are you free this weekend?

Mariam
No, I'm not. I'm going to Berlin!

Diego
No worries! That sounds cool. What are you doing in Berlin?

Mariam
Just visiting some friends. We're seeing a show on Saturday.

Diego
Nice! When are you leaving?

Mariam
I fly at 8 tomorrow morning.

Diego
Ouch! And when are you back?

Mariam
Sunday night. I'm only staying for the weekend.

In the dialogue, Mariam and Diego are discussing their plans for the weekend. 
Here are some of the verbs they use, as well as some other useful ones:
to go
to leave
to fly
to meet
to see
to stay
to visit

I'm going to Florida this weekend.
My train leaves at 5.
We're meeting some friends tonight.
Noam's train leaves at 7 tomorrow morning.
Are you seeing that film tonight?

Are you seeing that film tonight?
I'm going to France tomorrow.
We're meeting my sister tonight.

Are you staying in a hostel in Milan?
She's visiting her sister in Paris.
We're meeting some friends tonight.
She's staying with her sister in Paris.
We are meeting Lauren and Billy at the theatre.
When are you flying to Hong Kong?
Where are we going on holiday?
I'm seeing that new film tonight.
He's leaving the country this month.
I'm visiting my family in Toronto next week.
Where is he staying when he goes to Berlin?
What time are you meeting your friends?
I'm not flying early in the morning.
They are not going|They're not going|They aren't going on holiday this year.

166 - Talking about future events - Use the present tense to talk about the future

In English, we can use the present simple ("I fly") or the present continuous 
("we're going") to talk about plans for the future.
Look at the sentences below. They are all talking or asking about future plans.

What are you doing at the weekend?
Tomorrow we're going to the theatre.
I fly on May 1s
He's visiting his parents this weekend.
They are going to Spain at the weekend.

Sounding natural
That’s not to say that we don’t have future tenses in English... we do!
But it's very common amongst natives to talk about the future using present tenses (even more common than using a future tense!)
What are you doing at the weekend?
I'm visiting some friends in Chicago next weekend.

There is a very subtle difference between using the present simple and using 
the present continuous for future events. Here's a brief summary.

Present continuous: Future plans agreed between friends or family
We are meeting Michael and Angela at the restaurant.

Present simple: Pre-scheduled / pre-organised future events.
My train leaves tomorrow at 3.30.

We fly tomorrow at 7am.
They're going to Singapore in April. - "They're going..." (present continuous) 
is used here to talk about future travel plans.

When does your train leave?
She's visiting family next weekend.
The meeting is on Monday at 1.
We fly on Friday morning.
He's going to Japan in July.
Where are you staying when you go to Amsterdam?
I'm meeting|I am meeting some friends in town.
Are you seeing that film tonight?
She's leaving|She is leaving London next year.
She's going to the beach.
I'm going to Paris on Saturday. My train leaves at 11am.
We're visiting our parents this evening.
They're staying at a hotel tomorrow.
This weekend I'm staying|I am staying with my brother.
We're going|We are going to the park tomorrow morning.