Chapter 11: Study goals

1. Describing learning goals
Learn verbs related to studying

to study
We study medicine at university.

Do you study Russian?
We use the verb "to study" with the subject (e.g. "Russian").

I study medicine at university.
Ray says he studies at university ("I study medicine."), 
which means he is a student.

to learn
They want to learn English.

I want to learn to drive a car.
The verb "to learn" (spelled with an "e", an "a" and an "r") 
refers to gaining knowledge.

When we say "I want to learn English." it means we want to gain knowledge or develop a skill.

When we say "Í want to study English.", 
it means we want to learn about something in more depth (e.g. 
to go to a class or study on an app).

I need to learn German for work.
I want to study Korean with Busuu.

I need to study English for work.
We use "to learn" to mean gaining knowledge 
and "to study" to mean learning about something in depth.

to improve
I want to improve my English.

Farah wants to improve her English.
Farah wants to be better at English.
The verb "to improve" means to get better at something.

We can express our desire to study using the verb 
"to want" with "to" and a verb.

Why do you want to learn Arabic?
I want to go to university to study law.
She wants to improve her Spanish.

I want to study finance.
We use the verb "to want" to express a desire.
 We follow this with a verb (e.g. "to study").

I want to go to university to study marketing.

2. Explaining reasons for learning English
Learn how to say why you are learning English

Why are you learning English?
We use "why" to ask about the reason for something. 
We use the "-ing" verb form after "are".

I want to improve my English.
Amanda wants to improve her English.

I want to go to university.
I need English for work.

I'm a designer. I work in an office in London 
and I need English for work.
He works in an office in London, 
so he needs to speak English for his job.

I want to improve my English.

3. Describing language skills
Learn verbs related to language skills

I want to improve my listening.
I need to improve my listening in English.

The word "listening" refers to the skill of being able 
to understand what you hear.

reading
I want to learn reading.

My listening is good, but I study English to improve my reading
She says she is good at speaking and listening, 
but is studying English to improve her reading.

Anwar and Yahya want to improve their reading skills.

speaking
I need to improve my speaking skills.

I want to improve my speaking skills.
The word "speaking" refers to the skill of being able 
to talk in a language.

writing
I want to improve my writing in English.

I read a lot of books.
 I want to go to English class to improve my writing.
Do you want to improve your writing?

4. Talking about learning English
Listen to classmates at a language school

Ibrahim:
You speak very well, Zhang. Why are you studying English?

Zhang:
I want to go to university in Cardiff. I need to improve my reading and writing. What about you?

Ibrahim:
Me too! I want to learn marketing in Scotland.

Esther:
Wow! My sister lives in Scotland.

Zhang:
Really? So why do you live here in Liverpool?

Esther:
I work as a nurse here. I study English to improve my speaking.

You can say something positive about someone's English 
by saying "You speak very well!" or 
"Your English is very good."

You speak very well!
Your English is very good.

We use "well" after verbs like "to speak". 
We use "good" after nouns like "English".

5. Developing fluency
Say why you are learning English

I'm learning English to improve my reading and writing.
We use the "-ing" form to describe language skills 
("reading", "writing").

I'm learning English to improve my listening.
I want to improve my English.
I need to study English for work.

I study English to improve my listening.
I want to go to university to study finance.
I'm a manager. I need English for work.
We use "for work" to say that the reason for studying is because of our job.

































































































































































































