News and current affairs

1. Discussing the news - Learn vocabulary related to news

the media
Newspapers, television and radio are considered traditional media.

The media have a powerful influence on our lives.
Notice how the first /iː/ in "media" is spelt as "e".

the tabloids
Tabloids typically cover stories about celebrities and scandals.
* Tabloids usually have many pictures and short simple articles.

I don't read tabloids if I need a longer analysis of the news.

a headline
The headline read: "Hollywood star caught with no make-up on".
A headline is usually written in large letters at the top of an article 
and it's like a story's title.

The headline of the tabloid read: "500 bikes stolen in just one night".
"A headline" is like a story's title.

The headline really caught my attention.

breaking news
We have breaking news this afternoon.

Breaking news is about important, current events.
The programme was interrupted by some breaking news.
breaking news = important information about a current event

What's the singular of "news"?
"News" is uncountable. It's used only in the plural form but with a verb 
in its singular form.

The news about high inflation is worrying.
The news says there's been an accident in our area.

The news about their divorce is all over the internet.
"News" as a noun cannot be used without the "-s".

The news about free child care seems too optimistic.
Notice that "news" needs a verb in its singular form ("seems").

a news anchor
She was the main evening news anchor for 20 years.

The important news stories the speaker mentions include the 2008 
financial crisis and the war in Ukraine.

News anchors need to have good communication skills.

a commercial break
After the commercial break, more information was delivered about the news.

Commercial breaks are usually between two and three minutes long.
a commercial break = when a radio or TV programme is stopped to show ads

During the commercial break, I normally change the channel.

The news anchor promised to give more information about the breaking news 
from Central America after a short commercial break.
The news anchor says: "We have more on the earthquake in Central America right 
after the commercial break."

a commercial break
breaking news
a news anchor

VOCABULARY
the media

the tabloids

a headline

breaking news

a news anchor

a commercial break
 
--------------------------
2. Revising the passive voice - Notice the passive in the news

Breaking news
A Viaggio bus has caught fire this morning in a neighbourhood in Senglea, 
Malta. It is the city's second major bus fire in just a month. The bus has 
been completely destroyed, and a nearby car has also been affected. In 
addition, the fire has caused a great amount of smoke that could be seen in 
much of the city.

What is the news about?
a bus fire
A Viaggio bus has burned this morning in Sanglea. 
It is the city's second major bus fire in just a month.

The bus has been completely destroyed.
The focus is on what happened to the bus, not who did it. 
That's why the passive voice is used.

The passive voice
The passive voice ("the bus has been destroyed") is very common in the news.
We use it because we don't know or do not want to say who performed the action.

The show was cancelled after the first season.
We don't know who cancelled the show.

A nearby car has been affected by the fire.

assive voice forms
******************
Each grammar tense has its own passive form.

They make these shoes in Spain.
These shoes are made in Spain.

They are making these shoes in Spain.
These shoes are being made in Spain.

They made these shoes in Spain.
These shoes were made in Spain.

They were making these shoes in Spain.
These shoes were being made in Spain.

They have made these shoes in Spain. 
These shoes have been made in Spain. 

They will make these shoes in Spain. 
These shoes will be made.

The smoke could be seen in much of the city.

Breaking news
Luckily, no injuries have been reported. This new fire reopens the debate 
about the state of Viaggio buses. There have been several fires in recent 
months, especially in the older, grey buses. Last week five passengers were 
taken to hospital after a Viaggio bus caught fire. According to the city’s 
Transport Department, all old buses will be replaced with new electric models 
later this month.

What happened before the accident?
There were similar accidents.
There have been several fires in recent months. 
Last week five passengers were taken to hospital after a Viaggio fire.

Nobody has been injured in the accident.
No injuries have been reported.

Last week five passengers were taken to hospital after a Viaggio accident.
The Transport Department will replace all the old buses.
All old buses will be replaced with new electric models later this month.

-----------------
3. Direct speech - Revise tenses in direct speech in a news story

Harrison Anderson, 55, broke his arm in three places after being hit by a 
mobility scooter. His daughter, Daisy Stubbs, 25, accused the scooter driver 
of being careless. Ms Stubbs said, “The scooter was going really fast when it 
hit my father. He landed on his side and waited for an ambulance for three hours.”

Man hit by a careless mobility scooter driver
The main point is that Mr Harrison was hit by a mobility scooter 
and was injured as a result.

Direct speech
Somebody's exact words are called direct speech.
You'll see it in the news all the time where there are quotation marks (" ").

Notice the variety of grammar tenses in direct speech.
Ms Stubbs said, “The scooter was going really fast when it hit my father."
the past simple and the past continuous

"I was walking down the street when the accident happened," said Mr Anderson.
* Direct speech is somebody's exact spoken words.

Variety of tenses
****************
Notice the variety of tenses and how they're used.

Past simple
I watched the news yesterday.

Present simple
I watch the news every day.

Future simple
I'll watch the news tonight. 

Past perfect
I had watched the news before I had dinner. 

Present perfect
I've just watched the news. 

Past continuous 
I was watching the news when you called. 

Present continuous
I'm watching the news now. 

Ms Stubbs said, “The scooter was going really fast when it hit my father."
It's a continuous action in the past that was interrupted by a shorter action 
– "It hit my father".

"My father landed on his side and waited for an ambulance for three hours,” Ms Stubbs said.
"Landed" and "waited" are two completed actions in the past 
that happened one right after the other.

Man hit by a careless mobility scooter driver
“After I’d watched the security video, I had no doubt that the driver was not 
paying attention because he was looking at his phone,” Mr Anderson told our reporter.

“My father is now recovering in hospital and will probably be there for the 
next two weeks,” Ms Stubbs added.

“The mobility scooter drove straight at Mr Anderson and the driver didn’t even 
stop and simply left the scene,” said a passerby who helped Mr Anderson.

“The regulation will have to change and become stricter. Mobility scooter 
riders should carry identification and be trained,” Mr Anderson said when 
asked about laws around mobility scooters.

Mr Anderson - He thinks the laws should be stricter.
The mobility scooter driver - He continued driving after the accident.

“After I’d watched the security video I had no doubt," Mr Anderson added.
There are two actions in the past. The one that happens first needs the past perfect.

"The driver was not paying attention because he was looking at his phone," 
said Ms Stubbs.
The past continuous ("wasn't paying") is used for actions that continued in the past.

“My father is now recovering in hospital," Ms Stubbs added.
It's about an action happening "now", so we need the present continuous.

"He will probably be in hospital for the next two weeks,” Ms Stubbs explained.
"The next two weeks" indicates that it's a future action.

“The mobility scooter drove straight at Mr Anderson," said a passerby.
The past simple form of "to drive" is "drove".

"The driver didn’t even stop and simply left the scene,” said a passerby.
The action happened in the past as we know that "the driver left the scene".

The regulation will have to become stricter.
It's a future sentence with "will" + infinitive.

"Mobility scooter drivers should carry identification and be trained,” 
Mr Anderson said.
"Should" is used to make suggestions.

-------------------
4.Reported speech - Learn when verbs change in reported speech 

Interviewer: Do you like your job?
Ryan: Generally, I do, but I’ll be honest, there are many difficult aspects 
that people don’t often talk about.
Interviewer: Can you give us an example?
Ryan: It can get quite stressful when we have to deal with a difficult 
passenger. Once, a man nearly attacked me when I reminded him that smoking 
wasn't allowed on board.
Interviewer: What do passengers complain about mostly?
Ryan: I’ve worked as a flight attendant for 10 years and there’s always 
someone complaining about the food. Passengers very often expect 
restaurant-quality food on the plane. The other day a teenage boy came up to 
me and wanted a hamburger while we simply don’t serve them.

a flight attendant
Ryan mentions serving food on the plane, passengers, and smoking on board.

"There are many difficult aspects of my job" are the flight attendant's exact words.
These words are an example of direct speech and they come in quotation marks.

Read the interview with Ryan. Does the journalist use Ryan's exact words?
Ryan said that he’d be honest about the difficult aspects of the job that 
people didn’t often discuss. Dealing with difficult passengers is one of them. 
He said that once, a man had nearly attacked him because he’d reminded him 
smoking wasn’t allowed on board. Passengers also complain quite a lot, mainly 
about the food. Ryan said that they expected restaurant-quality meals. He said 
that a boy had come up to him once demanding a hamburger.

Ryan said that once a man had nearly attacked him.
It's an example of reported speech, not direct speech. We say what somebody else says.

Reported speech or direct speech?

Direct speech is somebody's exact words, often within quotation marks.
Reported speech is when we tell someone what another person said ("somebody said that").

Direct speech
Ryan said "I've worked as a flight attendant for 10 years."

Reported speech
Ryan said that he'd worked as a flight attendant for 10 years.

Ryan said that he'd be honest about his job. - reported speech
Ryan said, "I'll be honest about my job." - direct speech

He said that he'd had many difficult passengers.
We use "she said that" to introduce reported speech.

Verb changes in reported speech

In reported speech we normally use a reporting verb in the past, e.g. "said". We have to adapt the speaker's words to this past perspective by changing the tenses.

Direct speech                           Reported speech 
"I'll be honest."                       He said he would be honest.
"I like my job."                        He said he liked his job.
"A boy expected a hamburger."           He said a boy had expected a hamburger.

"People are complaining about the food all the time."
He said people were complaining about the food all the time.

"I've worked as a flight attendant for 10 years."
He said he had worked as a flight attendant for 10 years.

He said that people often didn't talk about the difficult aspects of 
a flight attendant's job.
The exact spoken words are: "People don't often talk (...)". 
We change the present simple to the past simple.

He said that a boy had come up to him once demanding a hamburger.
The exact spoken words are: "A boy came up to me (...)". 
We change the past simple to the past perfect.

He said that passengers were complaining about the food all the time.
The exact spoken words are: "Passengers are complaining (...)". 
The present continuous changes to the past continuous.

He said he'd be honest about his job.
The exact spoken words are: "I 'll be honest about (...)". We change "will" to "would".

------------------------
5. Verbs commonly confused - Learn the difference between "to say", to tell" and "to speak"

When she told me she speaks seven languages, I said it was very impressive.
"To speak", "to say" and "to tell" are verbs of communication but they are used differently.

"To say", "to tell" or "to speak"?
"To speak", "to say" and "to tell" are verbs of communication 
but they are used differently.

"to say"
reporting specific words
He said he'd come.

"to tell"
sharing information, a story, a message
I need to tell you something.

"to speak"
using words to communicate
She speaks two languages.

Please speak slowly. - using words to communicate
She told a fascinating story. - sharing information, a story
The sign clearly says "No Entry". - reporting specific words

She said she was sorry for the misunderstanding.
"To say" is used to report specific words.

He can speak multiple languages fluently.
"To speak" refers to using words to communicate.

He often likes to say that life is an adventure.
"To say" is used to report specific words.

She told her friend about the exciting news.
"To tell" is used to share information, a story or a message.

The painting tells a story of love through its vivid colours.
"To tell" is used to share information, a story or a message.

The old proverb says, "Out of sight, out of mind."
"To say" is used to report specific words.

He will speak at the conference tomorrow about artificial intelligence.
"To speak" refers to using words to communicate.

-----------------
6. Reported speech - Practise changing tenses

Jon and Emma Burton got married last year. 
It was a huge, beautiful wedding that cost them only £5,000. 
Emma said they didn't have much money so they'd decided to get creative. 
Jon said, “We used second-hand items and managed to save a lot of money.” 
Emma said, “I’ve always liked reusing old objects and turning them into 
something unique.” The couple said they were going to sell all the second-hand 
items to other couples.

What's the most suitable headline for the news article?
Couple creates an inexpensive dream wedding
Jon and Emma created a beautiful but inexpensive wedding. 
They saved a lot of money by reusing second-hand items.

Jon said that they'd used second-hand items.
Jon's exact words were: "We used second-hand items".
In reported speech "used" becomes "had used". 
The past simple changes to the past perfect.

Tense changes in reported speech
************************************************************************
Tenses in reported speech change to show the past perspective. 
Each tense needs to change to the closest past tense.

1. present simple → past simple
2. present continuous → past continuous
3. present perfect → past perfect
4. past simple → past perfect

1. "Weddings are expensive."
He said weddings were expensive.

2. "I'm getting married."
She said she was getting married.

3. "I've always liked reusing old objects."
She said she'd always liked reusing old objects.

4. "We saved a lot of money."
She said that they had saved a lot of money

Jon said that they'd used second-hand items.
The past simple ("they used") changes to the past perfect ("they'd used").

"We managed to save a lot of money."
Jon said they'd managed|had managed to save a lot of money.
The past simple ("managed") changes to the past perfect ("had managed").

Change the couple's exact words into the reported speech.
"We are going to sell all the second-hand items."
The couple said they were going to sell all the second-hand items to other couples.
We are going to changes to its past version "we were going to".

Emma said she didn't like any of the modern objects in the catalogue.
The present simple ("I don't like") changes to the past simple ("I didn't like").

Jon said he was helping his friend with her wedding.
The present continuous ("is helping") changes to ("was helping").

"We've borrowed all the tables from a friend’s pub."
Jon said they had borrowed all the tables from a friend's pub.
The present perfect ("we've borrowed") changes into the past perfect 
("we had borrowed").

Jon said that the wedding reception had taken place in his garden.
The past simple ("The reception took place") changes to the past perfect 
("The reception had taken place").

Emma said that they were flying to Greece for their honeymoon.
The present continuous ("we're flying") changes to the past continuous 
("we were flying").

"Our wedding didn't cost much."
The couple said that their wedding hadn't cost much.
The past simple ("didn't cost") changes to the past perfect ("hadn't cost").

----------------
7. Reported speech - Modal verbs in reported speech

These days we can’t afford our energy bills.
They said they couldn't afford their energy bills at that time.
Notice how "can't" changes to "couldn't" in reported speech.

Modal verbs in reported speech
****************************************
Modal verbs include verbs such as "can", "might", "may", "must", "should" and "will".
In reported speech, some modal verbs change to their past form, 
but if they have no past form they stay the same.

Modal verbs that change:
****************
I can't go. → She said she couldn't go.
I will help. → He said he would help.
We may try. → They said they might try.
I must leave now. → He said he had to / must leave.

Modal verbs that don't change:
****************
We might be late. → She said we might be late.
I should stay. → He said he should stay.

They said they should get some advice about saving money on energy bills.
Their exact words are "We should get some advice". 
"Should" doesn't change in reported speech.

how to save money on energy bills
She talks about small changes that will save you money. 
She gives four tips to make your home more energy efficient.

Marina Coss said we could make lots of small changes which would save us money.
Notice how "can" changes to "could" and "will" to "would" in reported speech.

Tip number 1
You shouldn't put a warm Tupperware container of food into the fridge.
It might make the fridge work harder to keep the other items cool.

Tip number 2
Don't leave your devices like mobile phones or laptops plugged in overnight. 
It might save you up to $200 a year.

Tip number 3
You should turn off the oven a few minutes before the cooking time is over. 
Your food will continue to cook without using the extra electricity.

Tip number 4
You must keep your oven closed while baking! Every time you open it, the 
temperature may drop by 4 °C.

Refrigerator- Don't put warm containers inside.
Mobile phone - Unplug it at night.
Oven - Keep it closed when it's on.

Marina said we shouldn't put a warm Tupperware container of food into the fridge.
"Should" doesn't change in reported speech.

"Warm Tupperware containers of food may make the fridge work harder."
Marina said warm Tupperware containers of food might make the fridge work harder.
"May" changes to "might".

Marina said that unplugging your devices at night might save you up to $200 a year.
Marina's exact words are: "Unplugging your devices might save you ...". 
"Might" doesn't change in reported speech.

Marina said we should turn off the oven a few minutes before the cooking time is over.
Notice how the letter "l" is not pronounced in "should". 
"Should" doesn't change in reported speech

Marina said our food would continue to cook without using the extra electricity.
Marina's exact words are: "Your food will continue ...". 
"Will" changes to "would" in reported speech.

"You must keep your oven closed while baking."
Marina said we had to keep our oven closed all the times while baking.
In reported speech "must" changes to "had to" or doesn't change at all.

"The oven temperature may drop by 4°C."
Marina said the oven temperature might drop by 4°C.
"May" changes to "might" in reported speech.

--------------------
8. Tag questions - Forming and using tag questions

You've been to Spain, haven't you?
You had a good time though; you looked like you did.
She looks so happy, doesn't she?

Here's a tip!
The questions below are tag questions. 
Question tags get added to a statement for two reasons:
1. To find out information we are not sure about
2. When we know the answer, and want keep the conversation going
Tag questions are common in spoken English.
You've been to Spain, haven't you? 
She looks so happy, doesn't she?

You're not feeling well today, are you?
You used to work there, didn't you?
The new house looks amazing, doesn't it?

Here's a tip!
When we are using tag questions to continue the conversation 
(i.e. we know the answer), we use falling intonation on the tag.
When we don't know the answer, we use rising intonation on the question tag.

You went to school near here, didn't you?
You've finished washing up, haven't you?
You won't be at the party, will you?
He's going to work today, isn't he?

Here's a tip!
Positive statements have a negative tag, negative statements have a positive tag:
You love him, don't you?
You don't love him, do you?

Here's a tip!
In the tag we use the auxiliary verb and a pronoun:
The food is great, isn't it? not* The food is great, isn't the food?

You're not coming tonight, are you? No, I'm not.
You'd like a cup of tea, wouldn't you? Yes, I would.
You get a lot of rain in this area, don't you? Yes, we do.
You were walking to work at the time, weren't you? Yes, I was.
You haven't seen this film before, have you? No, I haven't.
You'll help me with the project, won't you? Yes, I will

Here's a tip!
In answers to tag questions we usually use just the auxiliary verb with the 
pronoun. We don't use the contracted form with positive answers.:

A: You're not coming, are you? B: No, I'm not. / Yes, I am not* 

We've run out of milk, haven't we?
You love me, don't you?
We were there last year, weren't we?
You would agree with that, wouldn't you?
You run to work every day, don't you?
You are trying your best, aren't you?
She's worried, isn't she?
They've helped us a lot, haven't they?
The food didn't taste good, did it?
You're being silly, aren't you?
You could win this, couldn't you?

------------------------
9. The Economist - Read about tourism - including material from The Economist

Welcome to this reading lesson!
***************************
You're about to read an article from The Economist newspaper about the 
development of tourism in Japan. Before you start, have a look at the words 
below and make sure you understand their meanings.

on pace to
amid
fatigue
unfamiliar
influx
foreigners
three-fold
to trumpet
congested
to moan
horde
gaijin - Japanese "gaikokujin", meaning "foreigner"
backlash
survey
to rub along
to turn the tide

Too much of a good thing: tourism
****************************
Japan is on pace to hit 30m tourists in 2018, amid signs of fatigue with the 
unfamiliar influx of foreigners. Last year’s 28.7m was the previous record, a 
three-fold rise since 2008, and a once unthinkable goal of 40m could be hit by 
2020. In a country once largely overlooked on the global tourism trail, the 
figures are being trumpeted by the government. But Tokyo’s already crowded 
buses and trains are now even more congested. Businesses in Kyoto, the 
country’s ancient capital, moan they are being overrun by hordes of noisy 
gaijin. Such complaints—and fears of a popular backlash—have triggered a 
survey of local governments to discover ways tourists and residents can rub 
along. Yet there is no turning the tide. As the population falls and the 
economy shrinks, the one thing worse than kanko kogai, or “tourism pollution”, 
says one expert, is no tourism at all.

Japan overwhelmed: islands flooded by tourists

"not used to something". - unfamiliar

"Too much of a good thing" mean?
Japan's government is happy about of the increase in visitors, 
but struggles to accommodate them.

fatigue - exhaustion, reduction in enthusiasm
amid - at the same time as something else
influx - large number of people arriving at the same time

But Tokyo’s already crowded buses and trains are now even more congested.
Public transportation in Japan was already busy before the country attracted more tourists.

Did you notice?
"To rub along" is another way of saying "to get along", 
which means to co-exist peacefully.

Local governments try to discover ways tourists and residents can rub along.
Japan's government is doing everything in their power to help residents and tourists get along.

What do locals in Japan feel is the main problem with tourism?
There are too many loud tourists in the already busy cities.

Complaints have triggered a survey to discover ways tourists and residents can rub along.

What does "turn the tide" mean?
taking things in the opposite direction

Type the word that means: to ask questions and find out about people's opinions.
A survey might help you find solutions to a problem.

"to announce something proudly"
The figures are being trumpeted by the government.

--------------
10. Reacting to the news - Explore reactions to a news story

excited
I was excited to learn that 50 new companies were created in my area last year.
* She was excited to learn the news.

exciting
New schools will be built in my town. It's very exciting news.
* Akio says what the news is like.
"Exciting" in "exciting news" describes what the news is like.

Exciting" or "excited"?
There are many adjectives that can take both the "-ed" and "-ing" endings: 
"interesting/interested", "boring/bored", "exciting/excited", etc.

What's the difference?
1. Adjectives with "-ing" describe what something/somebody is like.
2. Adjectives with "-ed" describe how somebody feels.

What is it like?
This article is very boring.

How do you feel?
I'm bored. I'm not going to finish this article.

It's interesting news. - What is the news like?
I'm interested in the news. - How do you feel about the news?
Adjectives with "-ing" – What is it like?; adjectives with "-ed" 
– How does somebody feel?

terrified
I was terrified to read about the earthquake.

terrifying
Twenty people were injured in the shooting. It's terrifying.

Articles about wars and violence are terrifying.
"Terrifying" describes what the articles are like, not how somebody feels.

I'd be terrified to be a war reporter.
Notice "terrify" + "-ed" = terrified. It describes how somebody feels.

disappointed
I've just read the taxes will be increased again. I'm so disappointed.

disappointing
It's so disappointing. The government isn't going to offer more grants for students.

I was disappointed with the questions in the interview because they were too easy.
The speaker talks about her feelings and she's disappointed.

he article was disappointing because it didn't offer enough information.

confused
I'm confused about different opinions on current events.

confusing
This article about the economic trends was confusing to me.

The journalist seemed - confused during the interview.
The information about the tax reform was confusing to me.

"confused" – how did the journalist feel?; 
"confusing" – what was the information like?

shocked
I was shocked by the breaking news about the scientists' discovery of a new species.

shocking
I couldn't believe the shocking secret the actor revealed in the interview.

The interview was shocking! The minister said that 
there was going to be no education reform.
"Shocking" is used to say what the interview was like.

Ronnie feels confused because the article was confusing.
Ronnie says the article was hard to understand and 
that there were a lot of difficult economic words.

I was _________ to read that a new president has been chosen.
excited, terrified, shocked
The speaker talks about how they feel. We need "-ed" adjectives.

Homeowners are being reminded to regularly clean toasters due to possible fire 
risks. Toasters are the third most common appliance to cause a house fire. 
Bread crumbs left inside the toaster and extreme heat are a dangerous 
combination and that's why it’s important to keep your home appliances clean.

Vocabulary
bread crumbs – a very small piece of bread
an appliance – electrical equipment used in the house, e.g. a washing machine

Homeowners reminded to clean toasters due to fire risks
The article reminds homeowners to clean their toast because bread crumbs 
and heat can cause a house fire.

Lisa was shocked to hear that toasters are one of the main causes of house fires.
Lisa talks about how she felt.

How terrifying! Bread crumbs and extreme heat can cause a fire.
I'm disappointed that the article didn't give more information 
about how to clean toasters properly.

The American Academy of Pediatrics says that middle and high schools shouldn’t 
start before 8:30 a.m. That’s because teenagers’ bodies go through complex 
changes and they need an average of nine hours of sleep per night.

Sleep is important for the body to grow and for the brain to process 
information. Consequently, teenagers who don’t get enough sleep are at risk of 
feeling anxious and depressed and may have difficulties concentrating and 
staying awake at school.

Why should schools start later?
The news focuses on how the school timetable affects teenagers' health and performance.

It's exciting to hear that school leaders understand the importance of making 
sure young people get enough sleep.
The news is "exciting".

It's exciting to hear that the problem is being solved.
I'm excited to hear that the problem is being solved.
"It's exciting to hear (...)" – what is it like?; "I'm excited to hear (...)" 
– how do I feel?

How confusing!
Dona says she found the information confusing at first.

It's shocking to me that teenagers who don't get enough sleep are at risk of 
feeling anxious and depressed.

VOCABULARY

excited

exciting

terrified

terrifying

disappointed

disappointing

confused

confusing

shocked

shocking

----------------------
12. Developing fluency - Express an opinion on the news

I've just read that the government has made a decision to reduce the amount of 
money available for health and education. How disappointing!
* She says the news is disappointing.

I can't believe it! The tsunami destroyed so many buildings and killed 
thousands of people. I was shocked when I watched it on TV.
The speaker says how she felt.

Scientists are very close to finding a cure for Alzheimer's. How exciting!
A dangerous storm is coming. How terrifying!
exciting = happy news; terrifying = scary news

How exciting!
"How exciting!" is a reaction to good news.

I've been a teacher for 25 years and I was disappointed to read that salaries 
for teachers will not be increased this year either.
The speaker says how he feels.

I can't believe it. It's unbelievable.
It doesn't make sense. It's confusing.

 How does Jacob feel about the news?
terrified
The news makes perfect sense to Jacob. 
He's not shocked but he's terrified he won't be able to protect his kids.

I've read that scientists now believe that drinking coffee is unhealthy but 
some years ago studies said the opposite. I find this information confusing.

I was terrified to read about the big fire that started in the city centre.

The regulation will have to become stricter.



































































