Physical health

1. Sports and events - Talk about sports and sporting events

Football is the most popular sport in the world, 
with an estimated 4 billion fans.
* "Football" is known as "soccer" in the United States.

American football is a tough, physical sport. 
In the USA, people don't call it "American football" - they just say "football."

cricket
Cricket is the second most popular sport in the world with over 2.5 billion fans, 
but it is not an Olympic event.

Only five sports have been part of every summer Olympic Games since 1896: 
Athletics, Cycling, Fencing, Gymnastics and Swimming.

The boxer Muhammad Ali is famous for saying, "I am the greatest".

Here are two useful phrases: “to be into something” and “to get into something”. 
You are into tennis means you like tennis or are interested in it. 
You are getting into tennis means you are starting to like tennis or becoming interested in it. 
We often strengthen these phrases with the word “really”. 
Check out these examples:

He is really into cricket at the moment.
I am not really into sports, to be honest.
She got into cycling during the Olympics.
I can't really get into boxing - it's too violent.

They are really into basketball.
She got into snowboarding last winter.

the World Cup
Pelé is the most successful player in the history of the World Cup - 
he lifted the trophy three times.

With five wins, Brazil are the most successful team in the history of the World Cup.

the Premier League
The Premier League is the highest level of the English football league system.

Do you prefer watching the World Cup or the Premier League?

We previously learned about the verbs we use with different sports. 
We use play for sports with a ball or similar object, 
go for sports ending in -ing, and do for martial arts and 
other recreational activites, as these examples show:

My brother plays football on Sundays.
We're going cycling next weekend.
My daughter does taekwondo after school.

You need a stick to play hockey.
You need boots to go hiking.
You need a mat to do yoga.
They are doing yoga.

the Tour de France
The world's biggest cycling race, the Tour de France, was first held in 1903.

the Super Bowl
American football's showpiece event, the Super Bowl, 
is usually the most-watched television broadcast of the year in the US.

Wimbledon
Wimbledon is the oldest tennis tournament in the world.

Wimbledon - tennis
the Tour de France - cycling
the Super Bowl - American football

--------------------
2. Superlatives - Describe sports events with superlatives

The best superlatives lesson ever

We've recently seen a lot of superlatives, so now is a good time to review and explore this topic. 
As we learned in A2, we use superlatives to describe the person or 
thing that is number 1 or first in a given category. 
heck out these examples:
Kilimanjaro is the highest mountain in Africa.
The Nile is the longest river on Earth.
Football is the most popular sport in the world.

The Tour de France is the biggest event in cycling.
Wimbledon is the oldest tennis tournament in the world.
If you measure from sea level, Everest is the highest mountain on Earth at 8,848 metres.

How do we form the superlative?

Simply put, we add “-(e)st” to short words, and use “most” before long words. There are exceptions to this basic rule, which we will look at later.

Short words             Long words
old → the oldest        beautiful → the most beautiful
tall → the tallest      interesting → the most interesting
large → the largest     expensive → the most expensive

There are lots of tall buildings in this city, but that one is the tallest.
She's been to a lot of beautiful places, but she says Hawaii is the most beautiful.

If the word ends in "-y", we change the "-y" to "i" and add "-est". 
And if the word is, or ends with, a consonant-vowel-consonant cluster, we add an extra consonant.
happy → the happiest
easy → the easiest
hot → the hottest
thin → the thinnest

Monday is my busiest day of the week.
the thinnest phone in the world.

Before the superlative, we often use "the". 
But we can also use a word like "my", "your", "her" and so on, 
as these examples show:
What is your earliest memory?
This photo is my most important possession.
I'm a big Bowie fan - I think "Hunky Dory" is his best album.
Those running shoes are the cheapest shoes I own - 
they were only $10! The shoes I'm wearing now cost $100 - they're my most expensive pair.

Everest is the highest mountain above sea level, 
but many people say K2 is the most difficult to climb.
What's the funniest movie you've ever seen?
I love the colours in this one. I think it's his most beautiful painting.
The World Cup is the most popular sporting event in the world.

We can use the word "second" to describe the person or thing that is number 2 in a category.
K2 is the second highest peak in the Himalayas.
The Amazon is the second longest river in the world.
Baseball is the second most popular sport in the USA.
Cricket is the second most popular sport in the world, after football.

At almost 10 million square kilometres, 
Canada is the second largest country in the world after Russia.
My husband always orders the second cheapest bottle of wine on the menu.

Peru is the third largest country in South America.

The Nile is the longest river in the world.
Vatican City is the smallest country in the world.
Lake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
Angel Falls in Venezuela is...the highest waterfall in the world.
Russia is the largest country in the world.


Some exceptions to the rule
You probably remember that "good", 
"bad" and "far" don't follow the pattern we've just reviewed.
 Here's a recap:

good - the best
bad - the worst
far - the furthest / the farthest

The food used to be great here. 
It was one of the best restaurants in the city, but now it's one of the worst.
Which planet is the farthest from the Sun?

Some exceptions to the rule

There is a group of words that can take either "-est" or "most" in the superlative. 
These words all have two syllables (beats), for example "gentle". 
Below are some of the most common words in this group, one of which is the word "common"!

common - the commonest / the most common
cruel - the cruelest / the most cruel
gentle - the gentlest / the most gentle
handsome - the handsomest / the most handsome
likely - the likeliest / the most likely
narrow - the narrowest / the most narrow
polite - the politest / the most polite
simple - the simplest / the most simple
stupid - the stupidest / the most stupid

I still can't believe I overslept on my wedding day. It's one of...the stupidest things I've ever done!
Be careful here. This is the narrowest|the most narrow part of the cave.

This recipe for spaghetti carbonara is super easy - it's one of the simplest dishes out there!

She always says please and thank you. She's the most polite|the politest child I've ever met!

Here's one of the most useful phrases in English!

What do we say when a person or thing is not number 1, 
but is in the top 10 or perhaps the top 100? 
We have a couple of options, as shown below. Notice that the person or thing must be in the plural form:

He is one of the best footballers in the world right now.
He is among the best footballers in the world right now.
Wrestling is one of the oldest sports in the world.
China is one of the largest countries in the world.
For many people, "To Kill a Mockingbird" is among the greatest novels of the twentieth century.
The tiger is one of nature's most beautiful animals.

This movie didn't win any Oscars, but in my view it's still one of the best films of recent times.

among the fastest land animals on Earth.
Lions are among the fastest land animals on Earth.

---------------------------
3 - Mixed past tenses - Use the past continuous and the past simple together

Using the past continuous and the past simple together

You've seen these two verb forms before: the past continuous 
("was/were playing", "was/were going") and the past simple ("played", "went"). 
Now we will practise using them together to describe moments 
when two actions occurred at the same time, for example:
I was sleeping when the phone rang.
Our daughters got into kendo while we were living in Japan.

I was sleeping when the phone rang.
I watched the Super Bowl when I was visiting friends in Texas.
* We use the past continuous to describe a longer event which was in progress for some time.

Using the past continuous and the past simple together
The combination of past continuous and past simple has a couple of different functions. 
For instance, we use the past continuous to describe a longer event which was in progress for some time, 
and we use the past simple to describe a shorter action that interrupted it. 
To connect the two parts of the sentence, we use words like "when", "while" and "as". 
Here are some examples:
I was sleeping when the phone rang.
She called me while I was having dinner.
As I was driving home, I saw my old boss.
They heard a knock at the door.
My friend called me while I was having dinner.
She got a text as she was driving home.
She received a phone call.

Using the past continuous and the past simple together

We also use the past continuous to talk about temporary actions and situations. 
In contrast, we use the past simple to talk about completed actions or processes. 
Have a look at these examples:
Our daughters got into kendo while we were living in Japan.
I met him when I was working in Lagos.
She took lots of photos while she was travelling around Europe.
He played football every day when he wasn't working.
He made lots of friends while he was studying abroad.
While she was having lunch, she received some wonderful news.
She went swimming while she was staying at the hotel.
We found this cool new cafe while we were waiting for you.
I had a great idea while I was having a shower.
She was watching TV when suddenly there was a knock on the door.
As I was cycling to work, a cat ran across the road in front of me.
While I was walking in the park, I saw my best friend from high school.
We were having a picnic when suddenly it started to rain.
Hey, Dad. Mum texted you while you were making dinner.

-------------------
6.4 - Talking about fitness - Develop language around sports and fitness

to get in shape
I want to get back in shape before my beach holiday.

to get in shape - to improve your overall fitness
to be in shape - to have good overall fitness

to join a gym
If I want to get fit, I should probably join a gym.

to get a membership
I'd like to get a gym membership for one month, just to try it out.

I joined a gym last month to get in shape.

to sign up for a class
You need to sign up for this yoga class at least 24 hours in advance.

to join a gym
to get a membership
to sign up for a class

a personal trainer
My gym's personal trainer helped me set a workout plan.

a challenge
Running a marathon is a major challenge.

to lift weights
My fitness goal is to lift weights until I can lift 100kg.

to do cardio
I need to do cardio to keep my heart healthy, but I hate running and cycling. 
Luckily I love to dance.

to lift weights - This workout builds a lot of muscle.
to do cardio - This workout makes your heart beat fast.

to train for an event
I'm training for the Brisbane marathon this year.

training for an event.

to be sore
I'm so sore after my workout, I'm going to rest today!

I joined a gym a few months ago and have been getting back in shape.
* "to get back in shape" means to return to a previous state of fitness.

Have you been working out?
"to work out" means to do physical exercise.

to lift weights
to set goals
to do cardio

working out too much will make you feel sore

------------------
5. Discussing gym routines - Develop language around sports and fitness

Ken
Hey Natalia, you're looking great! Have you been working out?

Natalia
Oh, hi Ken! Thank you! 
Yes, I joined a gym a few months ago and have been getting back in shape. 
I signed up to run a race with my colleagues, and we're all training together.

Ken
That's great, which gym are you going to?

Natalia
I got a  membership to the new gym near my office, it's really nice. 
I have a meeting with a personal trainer every two weeks 
to look at my workout plan and set goals.

Ken
Wow, that's great. Are you mostly doing cardio to prepare for the race?

Natalia
Yes, mostly it's a lot of running, 
but I'm also lifting weights once a week to develop my back muscles.

Ken
Good for you! Aren't you sore from this much training?

Natalia
No, it was a challenge when I started, but now it's much easier. 
I'm really enjoying this new routine.

I'm sore today because I worked out too much yesterday.
Remember to do some cardio to get your heart rate up.
Rock climbing is a major challenge!
Anya signed up for a yoga class because her friend recommended it.
For a more challenging workout, we like to carry weights when we go walking.
Because he wants to build muscle, Tyrese lifts weights|works out every other day.

-----------------
6. Developing Fluency.  Talk about sports events in your country

Wimbledon is the oldest tennis tournament in the world.
Pelé is the most successful player in the history of the World Cup.
I'm into volleyball. - I like volleyball.
I'm getting into volleyball. - I'm starting to like volleyball.
Manchester United are one of the best football teams in England.
Cricket is one of the most popular sports in the world.
The Tour de France is the biggest event in cycling.
Baseball is the second most-watched sport in the US.
Ronaldo is one of the best footballers in the world.
The Olympics take place every four years.

------------------
7. Reading an email-Read an email about a charity run

Reading: Please sponsor me!
Have you ever taken part in a charity sports event?

We are going to read an email from Charlotte, who is running a 5km race for charity. 
She is writing to her family and friends to ask for their support. 
Look out for some of the fitness vocabulary we have seen recently!

You will also see some new words in the text associated with charity. 
Let's take a closer look before we start.

"to raise money for" - to collect donations for a charity
"cause" - the reason for entering the charity event
"to sponsor" - when you support someone by giving donations to their cause

lease sponsor me!

Hi everyone,
As you may already know, I am planning to run a 5k race for charity!
I am going to raise money for the local homeless shelter. 
The shelter provides food, clothing and medical care to as many as 100 people each day. 
This cause is very close to my heart because I volunteer at the shelter most weekends.

If you know me, you will realise that this is a big challenge for me! 
I am training very hard in the park near my house. 
I aim to complete the event in 30 minutes: 
I hope that if I improve my fitness I will do it!

I want to reach my target of £250: 
if you donate, the money will pay for clothes and food at the shelter. 
Any amount will be greatly appreciated!

Thank you very much for your support, it really means the world to me.
Love, Charlotte

Charlotte uses emotive language because 
she is talking about something that is very important to her.
This cause is very close to my heart.
It really means the world to me.
Any amount will be greatly appreciated!

Use "it's close to my heart" when something is important to you.
Charlotte is emphasising how much she cares about her family and friends' support. 
We don't know her feelings about the environment.

Charlotte is training for an event, and she has goals she wants to achieve. 
Notice how she talks about them:

I want to reach my target of £250
I aim to complete the event in 30 minutes.

Charlotte talks about her actions and their outcomes in her emails. 
We will see more of this construction later on.

If you donate, the money will pay for clothes and food at the shelter.
If I work hard, I will succeed.
 

Thank you!

Hi all,
This is a quick message to update you. 
I completed the race in 28 minutes, 2 minutes quicker than my goal! 
My legs are very sore, but I feel very happy. 
I am more in shape than I was before I started training - 
I now know that if i work hard I will succeed!
I raised a total of £325, which is higher than my target. 
I can't tell you how grateful I am for your support!
Love, Charlotte

Charlotte uses the phrase "I can't tell you how grateful I am" to show her gratitude. 
In cases like this we use "I can't tell you" to emphasise a strong feeling.

I can't tell you how angry I am right now.
I don't know how to thank you.
I have no words to describe how I feel.
I can't tell you how grateful I am.

I am more in shape than I was before I started training.
If I work hard, I will succeed!
to sponsor
2 minutes quicker than my goal!

-------------
7. Cause and effect language - Talk about your fitness

I am sore because I worked out too much yesterday.
Use " because " to explain the cause of something.

I recently got a membership, so I can now sign up for classes.
"So" introduces an effect.

We use particular words and phrases to express cause and effect. 
These words and phrases can go at the start or middle of the sentence 
and show that two clauses are connected.

Cause
"because", "since" - introduce the cause of something.
I am sore (effect) because I worked out too much yesterday (cause).

Effect
"so", "therefore" - introduce the effect of something.
I recently got a membership (cause), so I can sign up for classes (effect).

Since I started lifting weights, I have been feeling stronger.
I don't like running, so I need to find a yoga class instead.
I am sore because I worked out too much yesterday.


Because it is raining, the cause
I will go to the gym. the effect

We can also use the following construction to introduce causes:
XX + noun phrase.

Emily is more flexible as a result of her yoga classes.
Due to the weather, I will train in the gym.
Because of my membership, I can sign up for as many classes as I want!

because of
Notice that we use a noun after " because of ".

I have made friends because of my gym.
Notice that we use a noun after " because of ".

Emily is more flexible as a result of her yoga classes.
Because she trained too hard, her legs are sore.

I feel very good, - the effect
as a result of my fitness plan. - the cause

We use first conditional to talk about hypothetical actions and their results.
Let's recap the form:
"if" + present tense (cause) + simple future (effect).
If I train hard, I will finish my fitness plan.
I will get a membership if I like the gy
If I sign up for classes, I will get in shape.
If I train too hard, I will be sore.
The first conditional is used to talk about a cause and its future effect.

You will be able to run fast, the effect
if you train hard. the cause

--------------------------------------------------
Chapter 6: Expat life

1. Relocating
Deal with life in a new country

I want to open a bank account.
You say "I want to open a bank account" when you want 
to open a bank account.

to fill out forms
Please fill out these forms.
We use the phrasal verb "fill out" to talk 
about completing official forms.

We can also use the verb "to complete" 
when we talk about filling out forms.

Please fill out this form.
Please complete this form.

You must provide two types of identification.

Did you know?
When opening a new bank account you may be asked 
to provide identification.

Please provide at least two different types of 
identification, such as a passport or identity card.

You must provide two types of identification.
The most common types of identification are "a 
passport" (a passport) and "a driving licence" 
(a driving licence).

open a bank account
fill out forms
provide two types of identification

to rent an apartment
I will rent an apartment in Seville during my year abroad.
We say "you rent an apartment", when it belongs 
to someone else and we pay to live there.

Here's a tip!
Who are the people involved when you rent an apartment?

tenant
the person who pays to live in the apartment
a tenant "rents" the apartment

landlord
the person who owns the apartment
a landlord "lets" their apartment

The person who rents an apartment is the tenant, 
and the person who lets the apartment is the landlord.

Good to know!
We say "rent an apartment" when you live in an 
apartment you do not own. Rent is also the name of the 
fee a tenant pays their landlord.

I paid rent at the end of the month.
My sister pays rent weekly.

I pay rent on the first day of the month.
When I live in Seville, I will rent an apartment.

We usually pay rent ("pay rent") on a specific day of every month.

I want to open a bank account.
I pay rent weekly.

The tenant rents the apartment.
The landlord/landlady lets the apartment.
The rent is money the tenant pays to the landlord.

The "landlord" (male) or "landlady" (female) is 
the person who owns the apartment you rent.

rent an apartment
open a bank account
sign a tenancy agreement

Remember: "rent an apartment"; "open a bank account"; 
"sign a tenancy agreement".

Hi, can I please open a bank account?

You must provide two forms of identification.
Remember, we use the verb "provide" with the noun "identification".

I will rent an apartment in Seville during my year abroad.
I pay rent on the first day of the month, 
but my sister pays rent weekly.
She pays rent monthly ("on the first day of the month").

You must sign a tenancy agreement before you receive the keys.

When you rent an apartment, you sign "a tenancy agreement".

I pay rent on the first day of the month.

VOCABULARY
I want to open a bank account.
to fill out forms
You must provide two types of identification.
to rent an apartment

2. Living abroad
Learn language for moving abroad








