Passions

1. Describing your passions - Talk about the things you love and hate

to be fond of
I became fond of cats when I realised how intelligent they are.

to be crazy about
I'm crazy about these kittens. They're so cute.

We use "be fond of" and "be crazy about" to say that we like something.

Cats are so adorable. How can you not be crazy about them?
We say "crazy about" but "fond of". The preposition is different.

I don't mind.
I don't mind being around cats but I don't want to own one.

It's all the same to me.
It's all the same to me if we get a cat or a dog.

They neither like nor dislike cats.
It's all the same to me if we get a cat or a dog.

I don't like it at all.
I don't like cats at all. They bite and scratch!

I can't bear it.
I'm allergic to cats and I can't bear being around them.

"Don't like at all" and "can't bear" are used to talk about things we strongly dislike.

I don't like cats at all.

to like - I'm fond of it.
to dislike - I can't bear it.
to neither like or dislike - I don't mind.

to be keen on
I live with 1000 cats so obviously I'm keen on them.

"Be keen on" and "be fond of" have similar meanings but they take different prepositions.

be keen on
be crazy about
be fond of

--------------------
2. Understanding someone talk about their passion - Watch a video about a woman who rescues cats

Lynnea runs a cat home.
Lynnea must be crazy about cats.
She had to move to a smaller house.

It's all the same to Lynnea that she had to give up a big house with a swimming pool.
She has a group of employees.
She doesn't mind starting work at 4am to feed the cats
Some weren't so keen on cats when they started.
This cat doesn't know when to stop eating. He's so fond of cat food.

Once she has made sure that they are happy and ​healthy​, 
Lynnea g​ives​ them ​away to families who contact her online.
Lynnea can't bear cats.

------------------------
3. Reading about film genres - Describe a passion for cinema genres

a genre
Some movie genres are not popular in my country.

Have you read the article about the popularity of movie genres around the world?
"Gender" is used to talk about the characteristics of a woman or a man. 
"Genre" is a type of book or film.

a comedy
South Koreans are not very keen on comedies.

an action movie
People in China love watching action movies.

A good comedy movie makes people laugh.

a documentary
Russians don't like watching documentaries at all.

a drama
Italians are fond of dramas.

He says the film tells a real story and that some of the women 
who were lied to appear in the film.

a documentary - It's a film about real events.
a drama - It's a film about emotional problems.
an action film - There is fighting and explosions in this film.

a romantic comedy (rom com)
The Japanese can't bear romantic comedies.

a horror
Horrors are not popular in France.

He's talking about a horror. 
Clues: zombies, teenagers running away, lost in a forest, dark and scary.

The Japanese can't bear romantic comedies.

Movie genres around the world
In their research into the popularity of movie genres around the world, 
Stephen Follows and Bruce Nas show some interesting findings.
The Italians, for example, are really keen on watching comedies, 
but they are not very fond of action. 
The Russians don’t like comedies at all, but surprisingly, 
just like the Mexicans, they love romantic comedies. 
In fact, the Russian cinema industry produces a lot of rom coms, 
along with action and historical films.

Asian countries such as China, Japan and South Korea are crazy about action movies. 
However, in the US, where most action movies are made, 
they prefer drama films. They are also very keen on watching documentaries.

Horror movies are an interesting case. 
While the Chinese can’t bear horrors, the Mexicans love watching and making them. 
Mexican horrors are an unusual mix of Catholic tradition, 
American cinema and Mexican indigenous culture.

They like comedies.
They don't like horror movies.
The Russians are very fond of rom coms|romantic comedies|romcoms.
The Americans are fond of documentaries.
Mexicans make interesting horrors|horror movies.

Add an "-ing" to the action that you like or dislike.
People in China love watching action movies.

verbs + "-ing"
to not mind, can't bear, to like, to love
I don't mind going to the cinema.

preposition + "-ing"
fond of, keen on, crazy about
I'm keen on discovering new movie genres.

I can't bear seeing this actress in a comedy.
You need "-ing" after the verb "can't bear".

I'm fond of reading film reviews.
After "of" you need a verb with "-ing".

The Americans are keen on watching documentaries.

--------------------
4. Narrative tenses - Combine tenses to tell a story

Watch out for these tenses. 👀
When we tell a story, we use a variety of tenses to describe different actions.

Past simple
a finished action
used with ago, yesterday, last week
I moved to Dublin five years ago.

Past continuous
an action that continued for some time and was often interrupted by a short action
used with while
I was living in Dublin when the accident happened.

Present perfect
a recent action with an effect in the present
used with yet, already, this week
I've just bought these plane tickets.

Past simple
It was a wonderful August morning two years ago.
The action is finished (two years ago), so we need the past simple, "was". 
"Has been" would be for a recent action.

Past continuous and past simple
I was lying in my bed when I suddenly heard my mum’s angry voice.
"I was lying" is a longer action that was interrupted. 
"Suddenly" suggests that "heard" is a shorter finished action.

Present perfect
What? You haven’t packed your suitcase yet?
"Yet" shows that it happened (or didn't happen) at some unknown time 
but has an effect in the present.

"I've washed the car" is a recent action and 
the results are seen in the present.

There are three short finished actions in the sentence.
I went downstairs, hugged my mum and gave my dad a big kiss. 
These actions are in the past simple.

My parents were laughing and hugging again. 
"Were + -ing" suggest that these actions continued for some time.

The Little Superhero
Yes, I’m a superhero. I saved an elderly lady once, 
and quite recently I’ve used my superpowers on my grandmother. 
But my biggest moment was saving our summer holiday.

It was a wonderful August morning two years ago. 
I was lying in my bed thinking about the beach, the sea, the ice cream 
when I suddenly heard my mum’s angry voice: 
“ What? You haven’t packed your suitcase yet? We’re leaving in two hours, a
nd the kids are not ready yet. It’s so typical of you, 
doing everything at the last minute.” 
She was going to continue, but my father interrupted her. 
He sounded angry too. 
“Well, I haven’t packed my suitcase because I was preparing snacks for the 
road, and also, I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but I’ve washed the car."

“You know what. I’m cancelling the holiday: we’re not going anywhere,” 
my mum said. The situation was getting dangerous, 
and my parents were out of control. 
I needed to save the summer holiday. I needed to use my superpower.

I went downstairs, hugged my mum and gave my dad a big kiss. 
“Mummy, daddy, I see you’re very upset. Just take a little break to cool 
down.” They sat down on the sofa and soon were laughing and hugging again.

I can't fly; I’m not super strong or super fast. 
No, I’m just super kind, and this is my superpower.

Kindness can help in a difficult situation.

She was thinking about her holiday. 
Her parents started arguing. 
Her mum wanted to cancel the holiday. 
She calmed her parents down.

I saved an elderly lady once.
I was lying in my bed thinking about the beach.

Quite recently I’ve used|have used my superpowers on my grandmother.
It's a recent action, and we need the present perfect.
I went downstairs, hugged my mum and gave my dad a big kiss.
She was going to continue but my father interrupted her.
They sat down on the sofa and soon were laughing and hugging again.
The situation was getting dangerous and my parents were out of control.

--------------
5. State verbs - Talk about opinions and feelings

a character
In general, there are more male than female characters in movies.

a director
In Hollywood, only about 5% of directors are women.

a director - a person who tells actors how to play their parts
a character - a person in a film

In general, there are more male than female characters in movies.

the cast
The cast of a typical Hollywood movie is still mainly white.
"Cast" means the actors and actresses in a film/play/show.

a plot
It's still very rare to see a movie plot with a disabled character.

1% - LGBT characters in movies
2.7% - movie characters with disabilities
18% - Latino population in US

Only 32% of speaking characters in movies are female.

Although the representation of the Black and Asian communities is getting 
better, the cast rarely has Latino characters.
"Genre" means a type of movie, e.g. comedy, horror.

She is critical of the current situation.
She says "it doesn’t seem right", 
"I think we all agree it’s not enough", and "I believe it’s not fair".

State verbs
State verbs describe states (opinions, states and senses) not actions 
and they don't usually take the continuous form.

Example
I think/I'm thinking we all agree it's not enough.

opinions
to agree, to believe, to seem, to understand, to think

feelings
to hate, to like, to want

senses
to look, to see

The numbers don't seem right in a country where 18.7% of the population has a disability.
In this sentence, "seem" is a state verb of opinion. It can't be used in the continuous form.

I believe it’s not fair.
In this sentence, "believe" is a state verb of opinion. It can't be used in the continuous form.

We see LGBT characters in only 1% of movies.
"See" is a state verb of senses and it doesn't normally take "-ing".

You're speaking very fast. correct
I'm not understanding you. incorrect
We can use "to speak" in the "-ing" (continuous) form, but not the state verb "to understand".

Look! The camera is showing the main character. He looks just like you.
"Show" is an action verb and "look" in this context is a state verb and doesn't take "-ing".

Do we agree that we need disabled characters in movies?
"Agree" is a state verb and it doesn't take "-ing".

She wants to be a director now.
The sentence is about "now" but we don't use the continuous form with the verb "want".

I hate how Hollywood movies don't represent my community.
"Hate" is a state verb that usually doesn't take "-ing".

-------------------
6. Adverbs of comment - Explore adverbs for telling stories

strangely
Strangely, there was nobody at home.

suddenly
Suddenly, I felt cold air coming from the kitchen.

The speaker is surprised that there was nobody at home.
The adverb "strangely" suggests that it was unexpected and difficult to understand.

The cold air came quickly and in an unexpected way.

Adverbs of comment
Adverbs of comment usually go at the beginning of a sentence before a comma (,).

They help us understand what the speaker thinks.
Strangely, she was late for the meeting.
The event was unexpected and difficult to understand. 

Suddenly , I felt cold air .

obviously
Obviously, Keith left the window open again.

Surprisingly
Surprisingly, the door to the garden was wide open.

obviously - the speaker expected it
surprisingly - the speaker didn't expect it

unfortunately
Unfortunately, nobody answered.

gradually
Gradually, I started to realise something wasn’t right.
"Gradually" suggests that it happened little by little.

immediately
Immediately, I decided to run out of the house.
"Immediately" suggests that he did it without thinking.

Match the opposites.
obviously - suddenly
strangely - gradually

It was past 6pm. Strangely, there was nobody at home. 
Keith was not having his afternoon tea in the living room, 
as he usually does at this time, and Jasper, our dog, 
was not running around excited to see me. 
Suddenly, I felt cold air coming from the kitchen.

"Obviously, Keith left the window open again. 
It's the middle of winter, for God's sake," I thought to myself angrily. 
Surprisingly, it wasn't the window. The door to the garden was wide open. 
But I couldn’t see anybody. 
I was beginning to have bad feelings about all of it. 
I called “Keith, Jasper! Are you there?” I waited and then called again.

Unfortunately, nobody answered. The whole place was silent. 
Even the neighbours were unusually quiet. 
Gradually, I started to realise something wasn’t right. 
Then I noticed two broken plates on the kitchen floor. 
Immediately, I took my bag and the car keys and decided to run out of the house. 
But as I was reaching for the front door I felt a heavy hand pulling me back inside.

The house seemed empty.
The window was closed.
He started feeling afraid.
Immediately, he decided to leave the house.

--------------------
7. Developing fluency - Write a review

a review
In this lesson, you'll write a film review.

I never read film reviews before I go to the cinema.

Film or movie? 🎬
"Film" and "movie" mean the same but "film" is more common in the UK 🇬🇧 and "movie" in the US 🇺🇸.

a film - UK English
a movie - US English

to be set in
This film is set in modern Nigeria.
"To be set in" means "to take place in".

to play the role
Zainab Balogun plays the role of a wedding planner.

to tell the story of
The film tells the story of a young couple on the day of their wedding.
"To tell a story of something" means to "be about something".

to tell - the story
to play - the role

Nollywood makes more movies than Hollywood.

The Nollywood industry is changing. First, the films were low quality, 
but now they are more and more professional.

The Wedding Party
INTRODUCTION
The Wedding Party is one of the most popular Nollywood rom coms. 
It came out in 2016 and is still popular.

MAIN BODY
It's set in modern Nigeria and it tells the story of a couple on the day of 
their traditional Nigerian wedding. 
There are many characters in the film but I definitely enjoyed watching Zainab Balogun. 
She played the role of a wedding planner who was desperately trying t
o save the wedding when everything started to go wrong. 
Even though the plot is simple, the film is very funny and 
I personally liked the cast, too.

CONCLUSION
I recommend it to everybody who wants to have fun and is keen on exploring Nollywood.

He liked it.
Words like "recommend", "enjoyed watching", "very funny", "personally liked" 
suggest that he liked the film.

What's the structure of a review? 🤔
When you write a film review, make sure you organise the information about the film.

You can use the following structure:

1️⃣ INTRODUCTION
general information, e.g. title, genre

2️⃣ MAIN BODY
details, e.g. favourite character, cast, plot

3️⃣ CONCLUSION
personal opinion and recommendation 

In which paragraph can you find the information?

Introduction
general information about the film such as title and genre

Main body
details such as favourite character, plot, cast

Conclusion
personal opinion and recommendation

It means "sadly", "bad news".
Unfortunately, nobody answered.









































































































































































