Friends

1. Describing character - Learn vocabulary to talk about positive characteristics

cheerful - ပျော်ရွှင်
Cheerful people are like sunflowers. They always make people smile.

easy-going - စိတ်မပူတတ်သော
Sunflowers are a great gift for easy-going people.

These flowers made me feel so cheerful.
Sunflowers are great for easy-going people who don't stress or worry too much.

charming - အလွန်နှစ်သက်ဘွယ်ကောင်းသော
The orchid is a perfect flower for a charming person.

confident
A confident person will enjoy a bouquet of lilacs.

David is a charming man.
charming = attractive, behaving in a friendly way

The speaker sounds very confident.
confident = feeling sure about themselves and their abilities

caring
She's a very caring person and peonies represent this characteristic.

[k]thoughtful[/k]
Because Bob is so thoughtful, roses are considered to be perfect for him.

She's a caring person.
The speaker suggests the opposite because she never wears jewellery.

What do you call a person who is very pleasant and attractive?
charming

Choose the word that means somebody is sure about themselves and their skills.
confident

cheerful - happy and optimistic
easy-going - relaxed and not to worried
caring - kind and supportive

He thinks it's silly.
Wayne calls personality quizzes "silly".

What flower are you?
Lily OK, question number one: 
A good friend should be a) confident b) caring c) easy-going?
Wayne: All of them are important but I appreciate a caring friend. 
So, b, caring.
Lily: Question number two. What is your favourite colour? 
A) yellow b) green c) red.
Wayne: This quiz is rubbish. What does my favourite colour have to do 
with the kind of person I am? I don't know, I guess yellow's nice. 
Answer: a, yellow.
Lily: The last question, I promise. Complete the sentence: 
Life... a) has its ups and downs b) is a laugh c) is wonderful.
Wayne: Well, when I don't have to answer any silly personality questions, 
life is wonderful. So, c, wonderful.
Lily: OK, let's wait for your results. 
Oh wow – you're a sunflower. 
It says you're cheerful even in difficult times and that 
you bring a smile to people's faces. 
You're easy-going and people feel relaxed around you. 
I don't know, but I think you're more like a petunia to me. 
Beautiful colours but an angry, negative person who always complains 
– just like you!

According to the quiz, Wayne is a sunflower.
The quiz says that Wayne is a sunflower but Linda thinks he's more of a petunia.

What characteristic is important in a friend?
You're cheerful even in difficult times.
I appreciate a caring friend.
You're easy-going and people like being around you.

-------------------
2. Describing someone you know very well - Personality adjectives with opposite meanings

humble - နှိမ့်ချ
She's the best student but she's very humble about her marks.

arrogant - မောက်မာသော
She's so arrogant. She really thinks she's the best student in class.

humble - Anyone can be a good student, not just me.
arrogant - I'm the best in class and my classmates are slow learners.

shy
He's shy and finds it difficult to talk to women.

sociable
He's very sociable and feels comfortable around people.

A person who likes talking to people is sociable.
"Shy" and "sociable" are opposites.

hard-working
She's hard-working and I'm sure she'll pass her finals.

lazy
He's so lazy that he never does his homework.

She's hard-working and I'm sure she'll pass her finals.
Someone who is hard-working is serious about what they have to do. 
"Lazy" is the opposite.

He's so lazy that he never does his homework.

clever
He's clever and learns very quickly.

silly
She felt really silly when she couldn't answer the teacher's question.

I made a lot of silly mistakes, that's why I failed the exam.
A "silly" mistake is a stupid mistake. "Clever" is the opposite.

A person who is intelligent and learns quickly is clever

The speaker is hard-working and humble about her results.
Hard-working: she studies three hours a day. 
Humble: she doesn't feel special because of her good marks.

shy - sociable
clever - silly
hard-working - lazy

Which word means "intelligent"? clever
What's the opposite of "arrogant"? humble

at a high school reunion
Clues: "It’s been 20 years since we graduated from high school", 
"this reunion is a great idea".

Trey: I’ve just spoken to Trey. 
You wouldn’t recognize him. 
He was so shy in high school and now he’s the most sociable person in the room. 
He’s standing over there, just look at the crowd surrounding him.
Kendall: Well, he’s a well-known music producer now. 
I remember him being very hard-working, 
so it’s not surprising he’s so successful.
Trey: Emily told me Trey is successful 
because she helped him get into the business… 
She said she's the clever one here.
Kendall: Emily told you that? 
God, she’s as arrogant as she was in high school…

He enjoys talking to people.
Trey was shy in high school and now he’s the most sociable person in the room.

Trey is successful because he's hard-working.

someone who thinks they're more important than others - arrogant
someone who doesn't take work seriously - lazy
someone who doesn't enjoy talking to people - shy

Emily's as arrogant as she was in high school.
Emily said she's the clever one.

----------------
3. Reading about memories - Learn verbs to talk about memories

a memory
My earliest childhood memory is when I was three.

He remembers a lot of details about the past event.
They remember the same event differently.
Ken thinks they last met on a Friday but Luna is sure it was a Monday.

to remember
I perfectly remember it was a Friday.

to forget
You forgot that I haven't had a day off in months.

Please, don't forget to buy milk. We have none left in the fridge.
The speaker says "Happy birthday", so she remembers it's Ben's birthday.

to remind of
I called you to remind you of our meeting.

Katie reminds me of my sister. - Katie makes me think of my sister.
Katie will always remember my sister. - My sister will always be in Katie's mind.

to remember = to keep information in your memory; 
to remind = to make someone think of something

This smell reminds me of my childhood.
The smell makes me think of my childhood. 
"To remind" comes with "of" when it's followed by a noun.

to memorise
I'm not able to memorise my phone number.

to recognise
I recognised her even though she was wearing sunglasses and a hat.

The speaker recognised his grandmother in the picture. 
She reminded him of his mother.

Do you know any tricks to memorise the new vocabulary I'm learning?
"To remind" needs the preposition "of" when it's followed by a noun.

Ken's version of the event
It was a Friday afternoon. 
I was going to meet Luna for lunch. 
We were meeting in a Thai restaurant near my workplace. 
I remembered Luna loved Asian food, so I was sure she would love it. 
As I was near the restaurant, I saw Luna drive past really fast, 
faster than it's allowed in this area. 
I recognised her car immediately because nobody else 
in this town drives a 1980 green Pontiac. 
The next thing I saw was that she drove into rubbish containers

Luna's version of the event
It was Monday right after I left the gym. 
Ken booked a table in an Italian restaurant and I didn't want to be late. 
I took my car and drove as usual, following the speed limit in the area. 
There was a car driving in front of me and it suddenly stopped for no reason. 
My car crashed into rubbish containers but the other car didn't care. 
The driver just drove away. 
Fortunately, I memorised the number plate and gave it to the police.

Luna's car driving into rubbish containers
Ken remembered that Luna loved Asian food.
to remember = to bring information back to your mind; 
to memorise = to learn something well

I recognised her car immediately.
In American English, the verb is also spelled "to recognize".

Luna memorised the license number of the car that caused the accident.
In American English, the verb is also spelled "to memorize".

Luna and Ken remember the event differently. 
They have different memories of what happened.

recognise - I _______ her name on the list.
remind - These words _______ me of your name.
remember - I can't _______ her name.

She forgot to unmute her microphone.
"Forget" has an irregular past form "forgot".

-----------------
4. Phrases with "get" - Exploring one of the ten most common verbs in English

to get to the bottom of
Someone ate my chicken sandwich. I'll get to the bottom of this.

get to the bottom of something = to find out why something happened

Did Brenda eat the sandwich?
Lucas: Hi Brenda, how are you feeling? You were off sick last week.
Brenda: Hi Lucas! I'm getting better but still get terrible stomach aches
 if I eat too much. In fact, the doctors said I can't eat meat any longer, 
 so I had to get rid of all the meat in my fridge.

Brenda probably didn't eat Lucas' chicken sandwich.

She can't eat meat.
She was off sick last week; her stomach aches when he eats too much; 
the doctors told her not to eat meat.

to get better
I'm getting better.

She felt sick last week but feels better now.

get + a preposition
to get rid of
I had to get rid of all the meat in my fridge.

Now Brenda has no meat in her fridge.
She got rid of all the meat in his fridge, so she removed it from her fridge.

Did Joe eat the sandwich?
Lucas: Hi Joe! I've heard you're getting married next week.
Joe: Yeah, I'm. I'm both excited and stressed, to be honest. 
I really don't get on well with my future mother-in-law and 
she wants the wedding to be perfect. So, I've been eating green foods these 
days to look perfectly fit and healthy in the wedding pictures. So if you see 
any salads in the office fridge, you'll know they're mine (hahaha).

Joe probably didn't eat Lucas' chicken sandwich.
He's been eating mainly salads these days.

to get married
I've heard you're getting married next week.

He's getting married. "Get" means that there is a change of situation.

to get on with
I don't get on well with my future mother-in-law.

Joe has a bad relationship with his future mother-in-law.
not to get on well with somebody= to have a bad relationship with somebody

Joe ate the sandwich.
He's been having salads for two weeks and he needed a break from greens.

to get away with
I think I got away with my little lie.

He thinks he got away with his lie. He thinks he'll avoid the consequences of his lie.


to get rid of - to eliminate
to get on with - to have a relationship
to get away with - to avoid consequences

I can't wait to get rid of the old clothes.
Get rid of= eliminate, throw out

Complete the sentence with the two missing words. 
I get ___ ___ your sister quite well.
on, with
get on with somebody = have a relationship

She got away with breaking the printer.

She wants to get to the bottom of what happened.
to get to the bottom of something = to discover the real reason why something went wrong

I got married. - I didn't have a wife and now I do.
I got better. - I didn't feel well but now I do.

Indicate change with "to get"
When we use "to get" with adjectives, including comparative adjectives, 
"to get" indicates a change.

get + comparative adjectives
to get better, to get worse, to get older

get + adjective
to get angry, to get married, to get tired

I can't believe you're 2 already. My little girl is getting older.
When we use "get" with adjectives, including comparative adjectives, 
"get" indicates a change.

The speaker is getting married on the 15th of May.
My English is getting better.

--------------------
5. State verbs that can be action verbs - Learn the difference in meaning

State verbs that can be action verbs
Some verbs can be both state verbs and action verbs. 
State verbs describe things such as emotions, opinions and senses 
– things that your brain does. They do not take the continuous form, 
so you wouldn't see "I'm wanting", "I'm knowing", "I'm remembering". 
Action verbs mean, well... action: doing, something that your body does.
They are very flexible and can be used with all verb forms. 
An interesting thing happens with some verbs of senses and measurement. 
Verbs such as "to taste", "to see" or "to weigh" can be both state verbs 
and action verbs with a change of meaning.

want, know, remember, believe
State verbs describe emotions, opinions and senses and don't take the continuous form.

"To taste" is a verb of senses and its meaning changes if it's a state or an action verb.

Action Verb
Do you want to taste my gingerbread cookies?
In this sentence, "to taste" is an action verb and can take all verb forms.

This mushroom soup tastes delicious. - State Verb

Why are you tasting this fish? It's not ready yet!
"To taste" in this context is an action verb, 
and the action is happening "now" so the present continuous is used.

She was tasting the pudding when she dropped the spoon.
"To taste" in the incorrect sentences is a state verb and 
it can't be used in the continuous form.

I could smell cinnamon cookies for hours. - action verb
Christmas trees smell a bit like oranges. - state verb

I can smell cookies in here. - "to smell" as an action
These cookies smell delicious. - "to smell" as a state

The speaker is smelling the hot chocolate.
In the incorrect sentences, state verbs are used in continuous forms.

I'm seeing my grandparents for Christmas this year. - action verb
"To see" in this sentence is an action verb and means "to meet".

I've never seen more beautiful Christmas lights. - state verb.

It's so dark in here. I don't see anything.
Here, "to see" is a state verb and means to use your eyes to understand 
what is around you. No continuous form.

Diana's important family moment
I grew up in Poland and Christmas has always been very important in my culture. 
I always make time to see my friends and my family and 
I enjoy giving them presents.
But my favorite part is the smell of Christmas. 
For me, Christmas smells of Christmas trees, cinnamon cookies and 
a traditional Polish mushroom soup. The other day I was smelling cookies 
for 5 minutes like a crazy person but it just makes me feel very Christmassy.

For me, Christmas smells of Christmas trees, oranges, and a traditional Polish mushroom soup.

She was smelling cookies because it makes her think of Christmas.

Match the action verbs with their meanings.
to smell - to discover something using your nose
to taste - to discover something using your mouth
to see - to visit

I'm weighing sugar for the baklava recipe. - action verb
This small piece of baklava weighs 30g. - state verb.

I'm weighing sugar for the baklava recipe.
She's checking how heavy the baklava is. 
"To weigh" is an action verb in this sentence.

This small piece of chocolate weighs 30g. - to have a particular heaviness
I'm weighing sugar for the chocolate recipe. - to discover how heavy it is

This package weighs a lot.
Here, "to weigh" is a state verb and it can't be used in the continuous form.

action verb.
I'm measuring each piece of baklava to make sure they fit in the box.

state verb.
This box of sweets measures 5 x 6 inches and costs £15.

I'm measuring each piece of baklava to make sure they fit in the box.
In this sentence, "to measure" is an action verb and can be used in the continuous form.

This box of sweets measures 5 x 6 inches. - to be a particular size
I'm carefully measuring each piece of chocolate. - to discover what size it is

I'm measuring if the table will fit in here.
The situation is happening now and "to measure" is an action verb here 
so it takes the continuous form.

Nuray's special family moment
I don't live in Turkey anymore but I always try to go back to visit my family 
around the time of Şeker Bayram – the Sugar Holiday. 
It's my favourite time of the year and it reminds me of the time 
when I helped my parents out in their confectionery shop.

You have to know that the Sugar Holiday comes right after Ramadan and 
people eat crazy amounts of sweets. As you can imagine, 
it was always a very busy period for my parents' confectionary shop.

My job was to weigh all the ingredients for baklavas and measure all pieces 
so that they fitted perfectly in the box. I still remember 
after so many years that a perfect piece of baklava weighs 30g.

Nuray's job was to check how heavy the ingredients are.
Her job was to weigh all the ingredients. 
The other answer suggests that her job was to taste them.

I still remember after so many years that a perfect piece of baklava weighs 30g.
Here, "to weigh" is a state verb and means that a perfect piece of baklava has the heaviness of 30g.

state and action verbs
taste, weigh, measure, smell, see

---------------------
6. Watching the best friend challenge - Learn vocabulary to talk about friendship

The friendship challenge
Bokang: Hi guys, my name is Bokang and I’m a vlogger from South Africa.
My channel is called ‘The B Word’, where I share parts of my life and of 
course, hang out with my friends.
Speaking of friends, today you get to meet one of them. 
So, I’m sitting here with one of my best friends, Maxine.
Maxine: Hi.
Bokang: So, today we’re going to be playing the best friend challenge. 
Have you ever played it before?
Maxine: I have never played this challenge before.
Bokang: OK, so how it works is that I’m going to ask a question, 
we have some pen and paper, we’re going to write down our answers and 
then we’re going to reveal it to see if they match. Easy right? Got it?
Maxine: Sure.

Both friends have to write down their answers to the same questions 
and then show them to check if they match.

to keep in touch
We keep in touch through text messages.

How do we keep in touch?
Bokang: So, our first question is, how do we keep in touch? Ready?
Maxine: Yep.
Bokang: Three, two, one!
Bokang: I wrote ‘phone’, what did you write?
Maxine: I wrote ‘text messages’.
Bokang: OK, so it’s basically the same thing. We keep in touch mostly 
through text and through our phone.

She said that "phone" and "text messages" are basically the same thing.

They kept in touch through emails and text messages all these years.
The past form of "keep" is "kept".

to have in common
My sister and I have a lot in common.

to be on the same page
Everybody was on the same page so the project ran smoothly.

to have in common - to be similar and like similar things
to be on the same page - to agree with somebody

She's my best friend and we have a lot in common.

What do we have in common?
Bokang: So, our next question is, what things do we have in common?
You, stop it. OK, one, two, three!
Movies, slash film. OK, so we’re on the same page there.

"Movies" (US) and "films" (UK) are the same. 
Bokang says they are on the same page and it means they agree.

They are on the same page about what things they have in common.

to get along with
I don't get along with my friend's brother.

What do you like the most about me?
Bokang: The next question is, what do you like the most about me? One, two, three.
Bokang: I wrote that you are loyal and I think you’re funny.
Maxine: Oh, thank you, wow! I wrote that you are caring.
Bokang: Aww.
Maxine: And I really like that. And you’re very easy to get along with.

get along/on with somebody = to like them and to be friendly with them

My boss is very critical and he's difficult to get along with.
"On" is also a possible answer.

to keep a secret
Never tell her anything confidential. She can't keep a secret.
She can't keep a secret = She will tell everybody.

Can I keep a secret?
Title: What do we like doing together?
Maxine: Ok, ready?
Bokang: Yes.
Bokang What did you write?
Maxine ‘Getting coffee’.
Bokang I wrote ‘photos’. Which both are true!
Maxine That is true.
Bokang I feel like both are true.
Maxine We do this, we do it together.
Bokang We do get coffee and then we probably take a photo or two as well.
Maxine Yeah.
Bokang Our last question, which is my favourite, is can I keep a secret?
Bokang & Maxine One, two, three.
Bokang Yay!
Maxine Sometimes...
Bokang I can keep a secret, thank you very much Maxine.
Maxine OK, yeah, you can keep a secret.
Bokang That's the end of our best friend challenge. 
Make sure to pop your best friend a text, tell them how much they mean to you 
and maybe play this game with them as well. Thank you for watching, bye!

quite similar

Can I keep a secret?
to keep in touch
to have in common
to be on the same page

We have a lot in common.
They both like reading and travelling. 
They're both teachers and live in the countryside.

They didn't keep in touch for many years but they're meeting tonight.
stay in contact = keep in touch

-----------------
7. Developing fluency - Talk about somebody you know

cheerful - happy and optimistic
confident - sure about something
easy-going - relaxed and casual

cheerful and sociable
cheerful=optimistic and happy, 
sociable=enjoying being with people

Harry's charming and polite.
The speaker thinks Ruby is confident.
She thinks Ruby is confident but other people think she's arrogant.
A person who learns quickly is _____. clever

Carol always makes sure everybody is OK. She's an incredibly caring person.
caring = kind and worried about other people; lazy = not happy to work

What is the opposite of "lazy"? - hard-working

In the beginning, Ed is shy around people. 
When you get to know him better, he's clever and charming.
Monica doesn't think of herself as better than other people. She's humble.
Pamela had silly ideas as a child.

Pamela thinks about the needs of other people. She's very thoughtful.

I called you to remind you of our meeting.
sociable
Trey is successful because he's hard-working.
Emily said she's the clever one.
Emily's as arrogant as she was in high school.

The speaker is hard-working and humble about her results.
Hard-working: she studies three hours a day. Humble: 
she doesn't feel special because of her good marks.





























































































































