Chapter 8: Digital entertainment

1. Talking about gaming - Recognise language related to digital leisure

a controller
The buttons on our controllers were sticky, so we got a new pair.
When I was young, controllers didn't have so many buttons!

a game console
You can play games on your smartphone, tablet, computer, or using a video game console.

a headset
I like to use my headset to talk to the other players in the game 
- it avoids having to type messages.

multiplayer
I remember a racing game from when I was young, 
it was always so much fun to play in multiplayer mode with my family.

to cheat
My brother loves to cheat when we play racing games, 
but I usually win anyway.

bandwidth
The video sequences of this game need a lot of bandwidth, 
my internet speed isn't good enough.

fast internet
"bandwidth", meaning the amount of information that can be sent, 
is associated with the internet.

graphics
Have you seen the graphics in the new puzzle game? 
The backgrounds look like they were handpainted.

to lag
The new racing game has amazing graphics and is very exciting, 
but on my internet connection it always lags.

Owen
Mom! Stop it!

Katie
What do you mean "stop it"? I just won. Isn't the point of the game to win?

Owen
Yes, but you must be cheating! How were you going so much faster than me?

Katie
I must have picked up more coins - don't they make you go faster?

Owen
Do they? I guess that might explain it. But how were you throwing fire at me?

Katie
I picked up a special flower I think. That might be how I levelled up. 
Didn't you know that?

Owen
I don't know, I usually just push all the buttons on the controller.

Katie
Hmmm, you might want to try a new strategy.

------------
2. Understanding gamers - Practise language related to digital leisure

The version of the game does not have multiplayer mode.
In order to play this version of the game, you need to have a controller and a headset.
This game is beautiful, the graphics are amazing!

Oh no! The game has frozen, we don't have enough bandwidth!
* "bandwidth" means the amount of information that can be sent.

I just got the highest score! I'm number one!
"a score" means the points that a player has.

In English, it is possible to make a verb (action) out of most nouns (things). 
Some of these are quite standard and common such as "a walk"→ "to walk" 
while others are more informal and part of modern slang like "an adult" → "to adult". 
Language about new technologies use this pattern very regularly and 
we'll look at a few examples here.

Nouns (Things)
I need to send an email.
Did you receive a text?
Quickly add a bookmark from the menu.
I made a friend today.
I just got a high score.

Verbs (Actions)
I emailed her yesterday.
You shouldn't text while driving.
Remember to bookmark that page.
I unfriended him last week.
I just scored 4,587 points!

a raid / to raid
We're on a raid to steal their treasure. / We're raiding their treasure chest.

"raid" is a thing - We're on a raid to steal some treasure.
"raid" is an action - We're raiding their treasure chest.

* "a raid" is a short, sudden attack and "to raid" is to attack a place suddenly.

a level / to level up
I just reached the final boss level. / 
You might want to level up your character before fighting the final boss.

Andrew
Hey Amy, have you played that new game I gave you yet?

Amy
Yeah, wow the graphics are so good! 
You can see every piece of grass moving in the wind!

Andrew
Oh, yeah, though it uses so much bandwidth that my console  
when I enter a new area. 
It takes the game a few seconds to load the new scenes.
At least I think it's my console, it might be the version of the game I have.

Amy
That's a shame, you might have an older system than I do. 
Did it come with a headset in the box like mine?

Andrew
No, I bought my headset afterwards.

Amy
Ah, it must be an older version then. 
Well, you can come play at mine whenever you want. 
I haven't tried the multiplayer mode yet. We can do a raid together!

Andrew
I'm in!

-------------
3. Modals of probability - Use "must", "might" and "can't" to express probability

Are you confident in your gaming skills?
We're going to talk about probability and possibility using modal verbs:
We use "must" when we are certain that something is true.
We use "can't" when we are certain that something is not true.
The modal goes before the main verb in the sentence.

This must be the new version of the game, I've never seen it before.
Surely I can't lose with this score!

The game has frozen. The internet must be slow.
* John uses "must" which is a modal verb and indicates that he is certain of this fact.

I don't recognise that avatar. It must be a new player.
This can't be my controller!
* "must" and "can't" express probability – how sure we are that something happened.

Here's a tip!
We use "might", "may" and "could" when we are less certain that something is true, 
but we still think it is a possibility.
We use "may not" and "might not" to express this in the negative.

I may buy the latest version of the game, but I need to see the price first.
I might not be online tonight, I have lots of work to do.
I might be able to play this weekend, I will let you know.
* The word "might" signifies that Roberta's plans are not certain.

We must be able to unlock the next level with this score!
- We are certain about this idea.
We might be able to unlock the next level with this score!
- We are less certain about this idea.

The bandwidth has dropped, Liam must be playing video games upstairs.

Did you notice❓
We often use modals of probability with continuous verbs. 
The modal goes before the verb "to be".

You must be joking!
I can't be losing, I was doing so well.
I can't see any of the opposite team - they could be organising a raid!
* It's possible that the other team is organising a raid.
I can't be losing, I was doing so well.

We use "must" to say that we are sure and 
"might" to say that we're not sure that something is true.

We can also use modals to say how certain we are about past events.
modal + "have" + past participle
Who won the game yesterday?
It can't have been Liam, he had very few points.
Jess could have won, she had a high score when I left.

You must have seen the advert for the new game, it's been on TV every day!
* We use "must" + "have" + past participle to say that 
 we are sure that something happened in the past.

Here's a tip!
When using modals to talk about the past, we sometimes use contracted forms. 
These only occur in spoken language and are very informal.

might have - might've
could have - could've

Chris might've played the new game, I'll ask him.
* The phrase "might've played" indicates an element of doubt about an event in the past.

I might have played that game, I can't remember.
* Use "a modal verb" + "have" + "past participle" to talk about how sure you are about past events.

I might not be able to play this evening.
James must be exploring the map.
You must have levelled up quickly with your high score.

We use modals to show how certain we are about something.

More certain
must
can't

Less certain
might, may, could
might not, may not

The internet must be down.
I might not be online this evening.
You can't have levelled up without finding the secret door.

might be - less certain (present)
must have - more certain (past)
could have - less certain (past)

Ellie might be playing on Greg's team.
I might have broken my headset.

Sally must have won the game.
We use "must" + "have" + past participle to say that we are sure 
that something happened in the past.

She has unlocked a new level.
"I must have unlocked a new level" means that she's sure she's unlocked a new level.

The microphone on my headset may have broken.
Chris might have played the new game, I'll ask him.
I may have played that game before.
Ellie might be playing on Greg's team.
You must have found some treasures, there were loads in the last level!
Roberta may be able to play this evening.
I might|may be able to unlock this level if you help me.
It must have been the slow internet.
Sally can't have collected that many points - that's impossible!
I don't recognise this map - I must've unlocked|must have unlocked a new level!
Greg can't have beaten Julia, she's the best player!

-------------
4. Review - A quick review of recent lessons

It must be my new game then.
The game has the most beautiful graphics I've ever seen.
 
to lag - to display graphics with a delay
to score - to get a point
to cheat - to not behave honestly

I'm sure we can find a better offer.

I was playing my new game when the connection...dropped
I think our connection might be too slow.

My new game isn't loading, therefore I'll play a different one.
Since I got the console, I've been playing a lot.
Because of the internet speed my new game is lagging.
Have you seen my headset?
It's got the most beautiful graphics I've ever seen.
I was playing a new game on my console when everything froze.
His work is so busy that he can’t exercise.
I have been going to the gym.
I might|could|may join the gym to get back into shape.

I'm lifting weights.
She's signed up to the gym.
They're training for a marathon.
I've also signed up for a spinning class.
We're working out to get back in shape.
Exercise is good for our mental wellbeing.
What do you do to unwind?
Maybe I'll join the gym too!

------------
5. Reading about competitive video games - Read about video games - including material from The Economist

You're about to read an article from The Economist newspaper 
about a video gaming venue that opened in Texas in November 2018. 
Before you start, have a look at the words below and make sure you understand their meanings.

gamers, gaming
amid
strobe lights
competitive
booming
tune in
streaming service
to stage
to lure
to nurture
avid
tournament
sponsor
maladjusted
console

Gamers of the world, unite: eSports
America’s largest eSports facility opens tomorrow in Arlington, Texas. 
It will hold up to 2,500 video-gamers, who will gather to watch each other 
compete amid strobe lights, LED screens and thundering music. 
E-sports—as competitive gaming is known—are booming, on track 
to generate $906m in revenue worldwide this year, up 38% from 2017. 
Most fans tune into matches online: Twitch, a streaming service owned by Amazon, 
counts 140m viewers per month. 
But increasingly firms are staging live events, lured by ticket sales and 
the chance to nurture an avid fanbase. 
There have been 45 big tournaments so far this year. 
In other ways, too, competitive gaming looks like professional sports of the analogue kind, 
with leagues, sponsors and multi-million-dollar prizes on offer.
Most people still think of gamers as maladjusted teens who hole up 
for hours in the dark, alone but for their consoles. 
Turns out they like each other’s company.
© 2018 The Economist Newspaper Limited. All rights reserved. 
Published under licence. 
The original article can be found on: www.economist.com

eSports" - Video game contests with an audience.

They will watch each other compete amid strobe lights LED screens and thundering music.

thundering - very loud
Did you guess right?
In the article, we learn that gamers play together while listening to "thundering music". 
As you might've guessed, "thundering" describes music as loud as "thunder".

The video-gamers will gather to watch each other compete amid 
strobe lights, LED screens and thundering music.

But increasingly firms are staging live events, lured by ticket sales and 
the chance to nurture an avid fanbase.
* This means that events where an audience watch video-gamers compete 
against each other are likely to generate revenue.
There are still more gaming competitions held online than at live events.

Look at this sentence from the article again:
"Most people still think of gamers as maladjusted teens who hole up 
for hours in the dark, alone but for their consoles."

As you can see in this sentence, we often use the word "but (for)" to say "except (for)". 
Have a look below for more examples.

I liked everything but the fish.
The fridge was empty, but for half a carton of milk.

Most people still think of gamers as maladjusted teens who hole up 
for hours in the dark, alone but for their consoles.

They play alone in the dark but for their consoles .
America’s largest eSports facility opens tomorrow in Arlington, Texas.
You need a console to play video games.
They like playing together.

---------------
6. Developing fluency - Express your opinion about video games

"to be against something" means to disagree with something.
"to be in favour of something" is to agree with something.

I'm against computer games. - I think computer games are bad.
I'm in favour of computer games. - I think computer games are good.

Fabian's against computer games because they can have negative 
consequences for your physical health and social skills.

I’m against computer games for two main reasons.
Another reason is that it may have negative consequences for your social skills.

analytical thinking
I’m in favour of computer games because they have important benefits.
Plus, some games have educational elements and they can teach you about history and science.

Another reason is that it helps creativity.
Plus, it helps creativity.










































































































































































