Work

5.1 - Applying for a job - Explore the job application process

to look for a job
James told me you are looking for a job in Sweden, 
are you moving there?

"to look for something" means to try to find something.

You will often hear expressions like "job hunting", 
"job seeking" or "job searching", which all mean 
"looking for a job".
Job seeking is exhausting.
Good luck with job hunting.

After two months of job hunting, I was finally successful!

a job advert
I was looking online yesterday and 
I found a really interesting advert.

to apply
I have to apply before midnight, otherwise it's too late.

A job advert describes a vacant role or position in a company. 
We can use these two words interchangeably 
when we are talking about a job.
You need a degree in foreign languages to apply 
for this position.
We have three applicants for that role.

to send an application
When you send an application, you need to include 
a summary of your experience and qualifications.

In the UK a summary of your experience 
and qualifications is called a "CV". 
In the US it is called a "résumé".

Nina sent an application to the UN, she wants 
to work therer as an interpreter.


CV - résumé
position - role
job hunting - job seeking

Have you updated your CV recently?
I am going to update my CV today.
* "to update your CV" means to add recent information to your CV.

...and I have to apply before midnight tonight.
When you apply for a job you need to send your CV|
resume|résumé.
I applied for a job in Milan last week.

Sonia
Did you know Nina sent an application to the UN? 
Apparently she wants to work there as an interpreter.

Alexander
Yes, she told me! I really think they will offer her the job, she has a great resume!

Sonia
Yeah, I hope so, that would be amazing!

Alexander
And she told me you are looking for a job in Sweden. 
Do you want to move there?

Sonia
Yeah, I want to move in May. Actually, I was looking 
online yesterday and I found a really interesting advert!

Alexander
Cool! Have you applied yet?

Sonia
No, I need to update my CV first, and 
I have to apply before midnight tonight, otherwise it's too late.

Alexander
Well, good luck with your job hunting , I hope you get the job!

Sonia
Thank you!

I'm going to update my CV today.
I applied for a job in Milan last week.

VOCABULARY
to look for a job
a job advert
to apply
to send an application

----------------------------
5.2 - Language for job interviews Learn language for interviews

to make a good impression
I hope I made a good impression in my interview!
* We use "to make a good impression" to say 
that people have a good opinion of you.

To make a bad impression
* This means to have a negative effect on someone.

a candidate - someone who has applied for a job.
We offered him the job. He was definitely the best candidate.

Sometimes we use “interview” as a noun and sometimes we use it as a verb. Take a look at the examples:

I have an interview tomorrow at 10am. (noun)
My manager interviewed three candidates for the role. (verb)

skills and qualifications
Laura's skills and qualifications are perfect for this role.

experience
You need to have at least three years' experience to apply for this job.

a good fit - 
"to be a good fit for a job" means to be perfect for a job.
Simon doesn't think she would be a good fit for the position.

Next, we’ll look at some questions that you may hear 
in an interview. If you want to practise, you should 
think of your answer to each interview question as 
you complete the exercises!

What would you say are your strengths, and what are your weaknesses?
Can you provide any references?
* A "reference" is a recommendation from a person who knows you.

* A "strength" is a positive quality in a person 
whilst a "weakness" is a negative trait in a person.
* "Strengths" and "weaknesses" are opposites.

Robert is very organised.
Annette is quite impatient.
However, she is flexible and driven.

strength - a positive quality in a person
weakness - a negative trait in a person
experience - the knowledge acquired through other jobs

After the interview and at the end of the job hunting process,
 you will hopefully receive a "job offer"! 
 You will see this expression in the following noun and verb forms:

My dad received a job offer yesterday - he's really happy! (noun)
I think they are going to offer him the job today. (verb)

They should offer him the job, 
he has a great CV and did well in the interview.

"They offer you the job" means they want you to work with them.

to accept
Robert is going to accept the job offer today.

to decline
I declined the job offer because the salary wasn't very good.

Jamie accepted the job offer.
"to accept a job offer" means to agree to work for a new company.

VOCABULARY
to make a good impression
a candidate
skills and qualifications
experience
a good fit
to accept
to decline
---------------------------

5.3 - Describing your strengths Practise language for job interviews

interviewer
What would you say are your strengths, 
and what are your weaknesses?

Eric
I am very organised and driven.
 Sometimes I can get a little impatient, but I am working on that.

Interviewer
Ok, thank you. 
We read on your CV that you worked for the  company Lea Mobile. 
Can you provide any references?

Eric
Yes, of course. I will send you the details of my manager, Tom.

Interviewer
That would be great, thank you. 
So, Eric, why do you think you are the right  candidate for this role?

Eric

I think I'm a  good fit for the company, 
as I have worked in similar environments before, 
and I have a strong passion and drive for what I do.

Interviewer

Thank you, Eric. 
We believe you are a good candidate and your skills and experience are relevant
 to the role. We will let you know by the end of the week.

Eric
Ok, thank you very much. I look forward to hearing from you.

What are your strengths and your weaknesses?
The verb "are" suggests that we need the plural noun forms.

Laura's skills and qualifications are perfect for this role.
Can you provide any references?
* "references" are reports from people who know 
about your work history and skills.

I think I am a good candidate for that role.
"a candidate" is a person who applies for a job
 and "an interview" is a process of asking and answering questions

Simon doesn't think she would be a good fit for the position.
* "to be a good fit for a job" means to be perfect for a job.

You need a degree in foreign languages to apply 
for this position|job|role.
* "a position", "a job", "a role" can be used interchangeably.

I hope I made a good impression in my interview!
"an interview" is a meeting in which an employer
 asks the person applying for a job questions.

--------------------------
5.4 - Developing fluency - Talk about using English at work

when he deals with an international client

He says he doesn't use English a lot at work, 
except when an important Japanese client visits the company.

I don't use English a lot at work.
We use "a lot" to say that something happens often.

Stefan's team is international and English is their common language.
English is a big part of my job.
* We use "a big part of" to say that something is important.

Yìzé thinks English is a useful skill to have, 
especially in a job interview.
* Speaking English is an important skill and 
you may be asked some questions in English in job interviews.

* She speaks English at work "very rarely", 
which means not very often.

I use English in writing all the time, you know, for emails, messages and so on.
* all the time means very often.

--------------------
5.5 Review - A quick review of recent lessons

Ana
Hey Felipe, how's it going?

Felipe
Oh hey Ana! I'm great thanks!

Ana
You've got a nice tan there, did you just go on vacation?

Felipe
Yes, my partner and I went on a romantic getaway to Hawaii for a week. 
We got back yesterday.

Ana
Oh wow! I'm going to go to Hawaii for a friend's wedding in a few weeks.
 Where did you go, and what did you do there?

Felipe

We found a budget flight to Honolulu on Oahu,
 but we wanted to get away from the crowded beaches near there,
  so we went up to the North Shore and stayed in this small beach town.

Ana
That sounds lovely! Did you enjoy your hotel?

Felipe
Yeah, we booked a vacation rental property there
 - the house we rented was nice. 
 Nothing too fancy, but comfortable and near the beach.

Ana
Did you do any surfing? I think I am going to try that when I go.

Felipe

Yeah, that was the highlight of the trip
 - we both took surfing lessons on our first day 
 and rented surfboards for the week. It was really fun.

Ana
Was it hard to rent the boards?

Felipe
No, they asked for us to leave behind some identification,
 but it didn't require a contract or anything.
  I'll give you the information for the company if you want. 
  They have offices in lots of cities.

Ana
Wow, that sounds much easier than I expected. 
That would be great, thanks!

Let's review the last few lessons! 
We're going to take another look at the vocabulary and
 grammar that we have just covered.
First we're going to concentrate on the previous dialogue, 
so go back and have another listen if you need to!

We're going to go on a weekend getaway.
* "Budget" means the price of the flight was cheaper.
Did you enjoy your hotel?
I like to rent a car when I travel, it's cheaper than taking taxis everywhere.

I can't wait to... ...go to Shanghai next month.
I can't wait for... ...our trip.

Watching the sunrise at the Great Wall of China was a once in a lifetime experience.
I'll order some food for us.
Our travel guide was a bit rude, and overall the trip left much to be desired.

show someone - around town
pick someone up - from the station
turn something simple - into something great

Was there anything else I could help you with?

------------------------
5.7 - Reading about African art - Read about politics and art - including material from The Economist

Welcome to our first reading lesson!

We've designed these lessons in cooperation with The Economist newspaper 
to challenge your reading skills with current real-life texts.

You're about to read an article from The Economist newspaper about African art that was wrongfully taken to Europe during the era of colonialism. Before you start, have a look at the words below and make sure you understand their meanings.

an era (a long time period)
at hand (nearby, coming soon)
to advocate (arguing to defend someone)
a treasure (something very valuable)
a country of origin (where something is from)
an art historian (an expert on the history of art)
an economist (an expert on trade, industry and money)
a colony (a country controlled by another country)
consent (permission to do something)
ripples (small waves caused by a change)
to restructure (to organise or arrange again)
to amass (to collect a large amount)
to rule over (to govern, to control)

Good to go: restitution of art
A new era for Western museums may be at hand.
This week a French report went further than any before
it in advocating that African treasures in museums 
should be returned to their countries of origin.
The paper, by a French art historian and a Senegalese economist and writer,
urges museums to return all objects that arrived from French colonies 
between the late 1800s and 1960 because they would have been removed 
without consent, if the country asks for them.
France has 90,000 African objects, including 70,000 in the Musée du Quai Branly in Paris. 
The advice will cause ripples beyond France. 
More demands are expected, especially of the British Museum, 
the Victoria & Albert Museum and the Royal Museum for Central Africa in Tervuren, Belgium. 
The latter is due to reopen on December 9th after 
a five-year restructuring of the collection amassed during King Leopold II’s 
private rule over Congo between 1865 and 1908.

© 2018 The Economist Newspaper Limited. All rights reserved. 
Published under licence. 
The original article can be found on: www.economist.com 

* Homecoming: African art returning to its rightful owner

The advice will cause ripples beyond France.

In English, "advice" and "advise" are easy to confuse. 
"Advice" is a noun, it's the opinion someone offers you about what you should do. 
"Advise" is the verb, the action of giving someone advice. 
Have a look at the examples below to see the difference!

Harriet gives great advice.
She advised me that I should exercise more.
The advice will cause ripples beyond France.

* latter - 'last thing mentioned'
consent - 'permission' or 'agreement'
-----------------------

5.8 - Watching a video about monkeys - Follow a group of Japanese macaques



The famous snow monkeys of Nagano

This video from The New York Times looks at a group of monkeys living in the mountains of Nagano, Japan.
 Check out the following words from the video and make sure you understand them. 
 Then, as you watch the clip, consider why the monkeys love bathing. Is it just to keep warm?

a primate (a type of animal like monkeys, gorillas, or apes)
a hot spring (a body of water that is naturally hot)
to investigate (to try and discover the truth about something)
behaviour (the way you act around people)
a hot tub (a jacuzzi or hot bath)
a habit (an action that you often do)
to bathe / to soak (to sit in a bath of water)
an attraction (something that tourists visit)
an assumption (something you think is true without any proof)
stress (feelings of worry or anxiety)
generation (a group of people who all share about the same age)

Winter temperatures are often below freezing.
The landscape is sprinkled with natural hot springs.
The area has many mountains.

It wasn't until 1963, so the story goes, 
that a monkey first joined human visitors in a hotel bathing pool.

The bathing macaques brought more tourists to the area.

It's likely the macaques bathe to stay warm, but that's just an assumption. 
Research shows that bathing also reduces their stress levels.

These animals have developed their own kind of culture, 
passed down from one generation to the next.
I wonder what they think about while they soak.
Stress levels were lower when the macaques were bathing.


--------------------------
Chenxi is from China. He lives and works in the UK. 
At work, he only speaks English.

Before you listen...
Read the start of three sentences Chenxi is going 
to say. How do you think he will finish each one?

Well, I never feel completely comfortable speaking 
English at work because...


The most valuable advice I could give is...

I don't think anyone "owns" the English language, because...

Who owns English?

Busuu

Chenxi:
I would say at work, I definitely speak more English 
with native English speakers because most of the team 
members in my team, they're British. But overall, 
living here in the UK, I definitely feel I speak 
English more with non-native English speakers because 
it's a diverse city with people from all over the world.

Well, I never feel completely comfortable speaking 
English at work because if I had a choice, I would 
rather speak in Chinese. I feel I have an American 
accent because that's most movies I watched are 
American movies. But living here in the UK for a 
while, I definitely feel that I'm picking up the UK accent a little bit.

The most valuable advice I could give is not to love 
the language you're learning, no matter it's English 
or another language, you need to discover first why 
you love this language and why you want to learn it. 
If you're just learning it for no reason or if you're 
just learning it for test, then it might be difficult 
for you to keep motivated.

I don't think anyone owns the English language 
because unlike other languages which are only spoken 
in a very small portion of the world, English is 
spoken widely around the world, so it's really hard 
to define who are the owners of English.

No one owns English, really.

He never feels comfortable speaking English at work 
because he would rather speak Chinese.

The most valuable advice he could give is
to love the language you are learning.

He thinks that no one owns the English language because people speak English all over the world.

American-influenced English uses vacation.
British-influenced English uses holiday.

We found a budget flight to Honolulu.
"Budget" means the price of the flight was cheaper.

I'm going to go to Hawaii for a friend's wedding.
Did you enjoy your hotel?

Wow, that's much easier than I expected.

I like to rent a car when I travel, it's cheaper than 
taking taxis everywhere.

I can't wait to......go to Shanghai next month.
I can't wait for......our trip.

Watching the sunrise at the Great Wall of China was 
a once in a lifetime experience.

Our travel guide was a bit rude, and overall 
the trip left much to be desired.

show someone around town
pick someone up from the station
turn something simple into something great

Was there anything else I could help you with?









