Parties

1. Planning a party - Talk about celebrating a special occasion

a special occasion
What's the occasion?
* An "occasion" is a particular event such as a birthday or an anniversary.

to set a date
Once we've set the date, we'll send out invitations.
Have you set a date yet?
"to set a date" is to decide the date on which something in the future will happen

a venue
I'm trying to find the right venue for my birthday party.

an invitation
She sent out the invitations well in advance.

A party venue
A "venue" is a place where an event such as a concert, a celebration or a conference happens.

I'll send out the invitations soon.
An "invitation" is something you send to people you want to come to your event.

"To invite" (X) is the verb we use to talk about the action of sending or offering an invitation. 
You'll also hear "an invite", which is more casual than "an invitation".
Has he invited Sarah too?
She says she hasn't received an invite yet.

The invite looks lovely.
An "invite" is a noun and it's an informal word for "invitation".

When we get invited to an event, whether it's by formal invitation or 
on social media, we're often asked to "RSVP". 
These letters stand for the French phrase "répondez s'il vous plaît", 
which literally means "please respond" (X). 
Hosts often ask guests to RSVP so they know how many people will attend.

Please RSVP by 15 March.
Have you RSVP'd yet?

Please RSVP by March 15.
The term "RSVP" comes from the French expression "répondez s'il vous plaît", 
meaning "please respond".

Is the dress code smart or casual?
If the dress code is formal, I'll wear my new suit.

to bring a plus one
Let me know if you want to bring a plus one.

A "dress code" tells you what clothes to wear at an event or office. 
"casual" means informal.

Can I bring a plus one?
"Plus one" refers to an extra guest, so we can use this question to ask if we can bring someone to an event.

a seating plan
They created a seating plan to mix the guests up.
A "seating plan" assigns each guest to a certain seat or table.

catering
A friend has organised our catering.

to propose a toast
Rob is proposing a toast.

Rob is proposing a toast.
"Proposing a toast" means raising a glass and giving a short speech.

catering
"catering" is preparing and providing food for different types of events.

When we finish a toast or clink glasses, we usually say "Cheers!".

Sounds good, what's the occasion?

I like to wear a bow tie for special occasions.

We've finally set a date.
"to set a date" is to decide the date on which something in the future will happen.

The venue was beautiful.

a venue - space for events
invitation - request to join an event
dress code - guideline for clothes

Please RSVP by August 1.
Do you think I could bring a plus one?

the dress code
A "dress code" tells you what clothes to wear at a school, an event or an office.

The catering was late, but really good.
He wants to raise his glass to someone.
Miriam proposed a toast to her mum.
"Proposing a toast" means raising a glass and giving a short speech.

What's the occasion?
Sarah and Cam have set the date for their joint birthday party.
They sent me an invitation|invite.
RSVP|Please RSVP by March 15.
There's a lovely venue by the riverside, we should take a look at it.
We should create a seating plan, this place is huge!
Does the venue offer catering too?
The dress code is semi-formal.
I'd like to propose a toast to Sarah and Cam - happy birthday you two!

---------
2. First conditional review - Use the first conditional when planning events

Tyler
Hey Vanessa! We need to hurry up and organise this party. 
If we don't set a date soon, none of the guests will be available! 
Dad won't be happy if his family can't come.

Vanessa
Hi Tyler, I agree! There's a lot to organise. 
We said we should eat outside, but what will we do if it rains?

Tyler
Hmm. If it rains we'll use the gazebo that Mom and Dad keep in the garage! 
I hope it doesn't have any holes in it, it is very old...

Vanessa
Good plan! I've been thinking about entertainment as well…  
If there's a DJ, people might dance. What do you think?

Tyler
I'm not sure. I'll talk to Mom, and if she thinks it's a good idea, 
I'll look for a local DJ.

Vanessa
And what about food? This is why we need to send the invitations! 
We'll be able to create the seating plan when we know  who is coming.

Tyler
Ok, let's set a date for the party and hope that people RSVP quickly!

The first conditional introduces a possible situation and its consequence. 
We often use the first conditional to talk about events that could occur 
in the present or future, and what will happen as a result of those events.


Let's revise the form:
"If" + present simple (possible situation), future simple (consequence).
If we don't set a date (possible situation), none of the guests will be available. (consequence)
We won't be able to go (consequence) if we don't RSVP soon! (possible situation)

If she thinks it's a good idea, I'll look for a local DJ.
What will we do if it rains?

Dad won't be happy if his family can't come.
We use "will / won't" + infinitive to talk about the future consequences of an event.

Instead of "if" we can use "when".
Instead of "will" we can use "might / may / could / should" with the infinitive.

We'll be able to create the seating chart when we have a guest list.
If there's a DJ, people might dance.

I might drive to the party, if I'm not too tired.
Instead of "will", we can use "might / may / could" to talk about future consequences of an event.

When we arrive at the party, we'll ask Jess how her holiday was.
Zayn said if the venue is too small, he'll look for another one.
If the weather's good, we'll camp|we will camp outside.
Grandpa will be happy if we visit him on his birthday.
When my brother arrives, we'll eat.
If we run out of meat for the barbecue, we'll drive to the shop!
When the speeches have finished, will you help me put the food away?
If the samples are bad, we won't use|will not use this caterer.
We won't have the party, if we can't set a date!

------------
3. Throwing a dinner party - Explore language related to social occasions

Small social occasions

We have recently explored big events such as weddings and festivals. 
Now let's talk about how we socialise with our closest friends. 
Here are some examples of the phrases we will see:

We should host a dinner party to catch up with everyone.
I'm having a boardgames night, please come!

to have people over
I'm having a few people over tonight to watch the football.

to host a dinner party
We hosted a dinner party at our new house last week, it was great!

to throw a party
I want to throw a birthday party for my sister.

I'm having a few people over tonight.
I want to throw a small party.

a housewarming
Are you going to have a housewarming when you move into your new home?

a board game night
We usually host a board game night once a month for our school friends.

a house party
Our neighbours had a house party last night, it was quite loud!

We use different verbs with different social occasions.
You can use "to have" or "to host" with any of the events in this section.
You can use "to throw" only when talking about a type of party.

Luke is having a board game night tomorrow.
David hosted his sister's birthday party.
They are throwing a dinner party to celebrate the new flat.
We had a dinner party last week.
we hosted a dinner party"
I want to throw a birthday party for my sister.
We can also say "to have a small party".

to host, to have
a dinner party, a housewarming, a board game night, a house party

to throw
a dinner party, a house party
You can use "to throw" only when talking about a type of party.

to get together
I'm getting together with my old school friends tonight.

a get-together
Sarah had a get-together at her house last week.

Some verbs in English can become nouns.

personal pronoun            Noun
to get together             a get-together
to get away                 a getaway
to catch up                 a catch-up

Sarah had a get-together at her house last week.
A "get-together" means an informal meeting.

I can't wait to get together with my old classmates.
I'm having a small get-together this evening, please come!

Let's organise something!

Housemates James and Amelia are organising an event with a group of close friends. 
In this next section we will follow them as they organise the event 
via texts and voice messages. Look out for the phrases we just learned!

to organise an event
I am organising a party for my girlfriend's graduation.

Good idea. We could host a dinner party? I am happy to cook.
A "dinner party" is associated with cooking and eating.

Amelia wants to host a dinner party.
James is having a few people over tonight to watch the football.

Okay, let's have some people over for dinner. 
Should we provide drinks as well as food?

BYOB is an expression that stands for "bring your own booze". 
"Booze" is a word we use for alcohol. 
For some parties, the host might ask you to bring your own alcoholic drinks, 
to avoid spending a lot of money on their event!

I know it's only a small get-together but we should tell people it's BYOB.
James and Amelia don't know who is coming to their dinner party.

"to make it to a party" means "to come to a party".

We say "I can make it" when we are able to attend events. The negative is "I can't make it".
Amy says she can't make it to the dinner party, unfortunately.
I will let you know soon if I can make it to the concert.
Can you please send a text to the group? Then we can organise the food!

Hi everyone! Amelia and I are having a dinner party this Saturday. Who can make it?
Use "Who can make it?" to ask who can come to a party, for example.

Hey! Unfortunately, Omar and Anna can't
make it to the dinner party. Everyone else can.

Okay, great. Smaller dinner parties are easier to organise anyway!
I'll buy the food! I'm happy we decided on BYOB!
I know! I like having people over, but it is expensive.
Do you want me to organise a playlist for dinner?
Sure! A good dinner party has to be accompanied by the right music!
Of course - I can't wait to get together with everyone again!

-------------
4. Complex question tags - Learn to use question tags in conversation

Question tags are short questions that we add to the end of a statement, 
to check if something is true or to invite people to agree with us. 
Have a look below to see what they look like.

Amelia's a great cook, isn’t she?
You can't do Thursday, can you?
University feels like a very long time ago now, doesn't it?

You haven't seen my phone, have you?
"have you?" is a question tag in this sentence and it's used to check if something is true.

Here's a tip!

Forming question tags is straight forward: when there's an auxiliary verb 
("to have" / "to be") or a modal verb ("must" / "can / "will") 
in the main part of the sentence, 
we repeat it in the question tag together with the person we address.

She has planned lots of parties before, hasn't she?
James can bring a plus one, can't he?

Sarah is in town, isn't she?
"isn't" from the question tag needs to be repeated in the main sentence but in its positive form.

She has planned lots of parties before, hasn't she?
The main verb "has" has to be repeated in the question tag but in its negative form, "hasn't".

If the verb in the main part of the sentence is positive, 
the question tag has to be negative. 
In turn, if the verb in the main part is negative, the question tag has to be positive.

He is a great host, isn't he?
He's not a great host, is he?

You will come to the party, won't you?
If the verb in the main part of the sentence is positive, the question tag has to be negative.

It's a nice day , isn't it ?
You can do Thursday, can't you?

When there's no auxiliary or modal verb in a sentence, 
we use the verb "to do" for the question tag, as you can see below.

You work near the shopping centre, don't you?
She never hosts dinner parties, does she?
We forgot to invite Pablo, didn't we?
You work near the shopping centre, don't you?
We forgot to invite Pablo, didn't we?
She never hosts dinner parties, does she?
They have a child, don't they?

When you talk about yourself using "I am" in the main part of the sentence, 
the question tag becomes "aren't I", as you can see below.
I am a great cook, aren't I?

James can bring a friend, can't he?
James went alone, didn't he?
James hasn't found a flat yet, has he?

It is nice to get together again, isn't it?

Lucy wasn't very hungry, was she?
Lucy didn't go to the party, did she?
Lucy lost touch with him, didn't she?

When we don't shorten a negative question tag, the word order changes, as you can see below.

They went to the party, didn't they?
They went to the party, did they not?
They went to the party, did they not?
He can bring a friend, can't he?

They called you, did they not?
They didn't wait, did they?
They have a child, don't they?
We weren't too late, were we?
It has been a really long time, hasn’t it?
We won't be too late, will we?
University feels like a very long time ago now, doesn't it|does it not?
You work near the shopping centre, don’t you|do you not?
The sweet potatoes are tasty, aren't they|are they not?
You live in Madrid, don't you?|You live in Madrid, do you not?
She can bring a friend, can't she?|She can bring a friend, can she not?
Tom has a brother, doesn't he|does he not?
We will walk, won't we?





























































































































