Communication

1. Indirect object with "to say" and "to tell" 
- Learn the difference in form between "to say" and "to tell"

Mellisa said, "I'll be there at 3 PM."
"To say" focuses on the content of communication rather than the fact of 
sharing information with a specific person.

Mellisa told me, "I'll be there at 3 PM."
"To tell" focuses on the act of sharing information with a specific person.

"To say" or "to tell"?
*********************
"To say" and "to tell" are commonly used to report somebody's words. 
However, they behave differently regarding the indirect object 
– the person receiving the communication.

to say
Used without the indirect object
He said that he would help us.
Focus: the content of the communication

to tell
Used with the indirect object
He told his sister that he would help us.
Focus: the act of sharing information with a specific person

He said that he loved the book.
The focus is on the content of the information

He told his sister that he loved the book.
The focus is on sharing the information with a specific person.

"To say" and "to tell" have a similar meaning but a slightly different focus.

They said it was going to rain.
"To say" can be used without mentioning the person receiving 
the communication (indirect object).

He told his friends he might be late.
"To tell" is commonly followed by the person receiving 
the communication (indirect object).

They said they could help with the project.
They told the boss they could help with the project.
"To tell" is followed by the person receiving the communication 
while "to say" isn't.

Mary told them that she didn't want to go.
"To tell" is commonly followed by the person receiving 
the communication (indirect object).

She said she was going to the chemist.
"To say" can be used without mentioning the person receiving 
the communication (indirect object).

She told him that she had a surprise for him.
"To tell" is commonly followed by the person receiving 
the communication (indirect object).

They said that they had enjoyed the film.
"To say" can be used without mentioning the person receiving 
the communication (indirect object).

-----------------------------
2. Other changes in reported speech - References to people, places and times

a dance-off
The dance-off at the party had everyone laughing.

Liam and Emily did the most hilarious dance-off last night.
"A dance-off" is a friendly dance competition done for fun.

Jackson told me that Liam and Emily had done the most hilarious dance-off the previous night.
In the reported speech ("Jackson told me that"), "last night" changes to "the previous night".

Time, place and people in reported speech
When we tell others about something someone said or did, we might change the 
way we talk about time, place and people. It's like adjusting the details so 
the story makes sense from our point of view.

People
"We're having a party."
She said they were having a party.

Time
"We had a party last night."
She said they'd had a party the previous night.

Places
"I'll meet you here."
She said she'd meet me there.

"Now" refers to time and it changes in reported speech to reflect 
the speaker's perspective.

here
"Here" refers to a place and it changes in reported speech 
to reflect the speaker's perspective.

She said, "I've got my phone out".
She said that she'd got her phone out.
"I" and "my" refer to people and they change in the reported speech 
to reflect the speaker's perspective.

Expressions that change
Notice how these expressions change in reported speech.

Direct speech                       Reported speech
today                               that day
tonight                             that night
now                                 then
last week                           the week before / the previous week
next year                           the following year / the next year
tomorrow                            the following day / the next day
here                                there
this                                that / the
these                               those

We'll see you tomorrow. They said they'd see me the next day.
We'll see you tonight. They said they'd see me that night.
"Tomorrow" changes to "the next / following day". "Tonight" changes to "that night".

She said that she was going to the shop that day.
"Today" changes to "that day" in the reported speech.

John said that he had had breakfast that morning.
John said, "I've had breakfast this morning."

Nathan said that he would finish the project the following week.
Nathan said, "I will finish the project next week."

Olivia: Hey, you won't believe what's happening right now at the party! 
Seriously, you need to get here as soon as possible. Liam and Emily are doing 
the most hilarious dance-off now.
Ethan: Oh man, really? A dance-off? That sounds cool! I can’t be there 
tonight, I'm stuck with some stuff at work. Are they doing crazy moves?
Olivia: Absolutely insane moves! I mean, they're doing everything from the 
moonwalk to the robot. And the energy in this room is insane.
Ethan: I'm really bummed I'm not there to see these moves.
Olivia: Oh, don't worry, I've got my phone out and I'm recording the whole 
thing. I can't get enough of it! Seriously, I hope for another dance-off at my 
party next week.

What are Olivia and Ethan talking about?
their friends dancing
Olivia is at a party and their friends are doing a hilarious dance-off 
with some insane moves.

Olivia wants Ethan to come to the party.
She wants him to get there as soon as possible because of the hilarious dance-off.

He says he can't be there tonight because he's stuck with some stuff at work.

Olivia told him that he wouldn't believe what was happening then at the party.
Because you're reporting the messages, 
you need to change the reference to people and time in this sentence.

Olivia told him that he needed to get there as soon as possible.
In the reported speech, change "here" to "there".

Ethan told Olivia he couldn't be there that night.
Change the reference to Ethan from "I' to "he" and the reference to time from 
"tonight" to "that night".

Olivia said, "And the energy in this room is insane."
Olivia said the energy in that room was insane.
In the reported speech change "this" to "that" or "the".

Ethan said he was really bummed he wasn't there to see those moves.
Change the reference to Ethan from "I" to "he" and "these" to "those".

Olivia said she was recording the whole thing.
Change the reference to Olivia from "I" to "she".

Olivia said, "I hope for another dance-off at my party next week."
Olivia said she hoped for another dance-off at her party the following week.
In the reported speech, change "next week" to "the next / following week".

---------------------------
3. Exploring communication verbs - Learn different ways of saying "to say"

to whisper
She whispered a secret in his ear.

They were in the library so they decided to whisper to not disturb anyone.
The verb "to whisper" means to speak quietly.

What are the children whispering about?
Notice that "h" in "whisper" is written but not pronounced.

to shout
The coach shouted instructions to the players on the pitch.

When he managed to climb the mountain, he shouted from the top.
The verb "to shout" means to speak loudly.

to shout - to speak very loudly
to whisper - to speak very quietly

to gossip
In my town, news travels fast and people often gossip.

The coworkers stood around the printer to gossip about the office scandal.
* The verb "to gossip" means to talk about other people's private lives

Instead of gossiping, they focused on more positive conversations.

to argue
The couple used to argue a lot, but now they communicate better.
People often argue about unimportant matters.
People often disagree and speak angrily about unimportant matters.
* The verb "to argue" means to disagree and speak angrily.

to joke
He loved to joke and make people laugh.
She joked about her own language mistakes, 
telling funny stories about mispronouncing words in English.
* The verb "to joke" means to speak humourously.

to argue - to speak angrily
to gossip - to speak negatively about others
to joke - to speak happily

They argued about money a lot so they decided to be more careful with their finances.
The verb "to argue" means to speak angrily.

She's joking about her cooking skills.
She's telling an anecdote about the day she burnt burgers on a grill.

She didn't want to wake up her kids, so she whispered their bedtime stories.
The verb "to whisper" means to speak quietly.

The music was so loud that he had to shout to be heard.
The verb "to shout" means to speak very loudly.

They're arguing.
The verb "to argue" means to speak angrily.

I didn't want to shout but I was very frustrated.
We use the infinitive form of "to shout" after the verb "to want to".

Don't worry, I'm only joking! I'm not going to eat your ice cream.
It's the present continuous, so we use the -ing form of the verb "to joke".

I felt that everyone in the room was whispering about my new hair.
It's the past continuous so we use the -ing form of the verb "to whisper".

-------------------
4. Reported speech: no verb change - Notice the nuances in meaning

Karen likes gossiping.
"to gossip" means to talk about other people's personal lives in a way 
that is sometimes negative.

The man didn't want a dog because it's a big responsibility 
and they already have a cat.

She said she wasn't going to talk to him ever again.
In this sentence, the speaker uses the past tense in reported speech after "said".

He said that he doesn't want to have a dog.
In this sentence, the speaker keeps the present tense in reported speech after "said".

Present tense or past tense in reported speech?
We can keep all forms of present tenses in reported speech if the information 
is still true at the moment of reporting it.

He said that he works from home.
He still works from home.

They said they are running in the park.
They are still running.

He said they already have a cat.
They still have a cat.
We keep the present tense in reported speech if the information is still true 
at the moment of reporting it.

Karen said that her neighbours are arguing.
The neighbours are still arguing at the moment of reporting it.

Karen said that her neighbours were arguing.
The neighbours are no longer arguing at the moment of reporting it.

Changing tenses in reported speech depends on the context.

Karen said her downstairs neighbours bought a new car.
In this sentence, Karen uses the past simple after "said".

Karen said her next-door neighbours had divorced the previous year.
In this sentence, Karen uses the past perfect after "said".

Past simple or past perfect in reported speech?
To talk about past events in reported speech, you can decide to keep the past 
simple tense ("she sold") or change it to the past perfect ("she'd sold").

She said she sold her house.
Selling the house feels recent to the speaker.

She said she'd sold her house.
Selling the house seems a long time ago to the speaker.

Karen said that her downstairs neighbour lost her job.
The news feels recent to Karen.

Karen said that her downstairs neighbour had lost her job.
The news feels distant in time to Karen.

Karen said that the police showed up at the Smiths' door.
Karen reports the past event using the past simple. 
This suggests that the action feels recent to her.

Karen said the Smiths' daughter had moved back home.
Using the past perfect ("had moved") after "said" makes the action appear 
more distant in time.

Karen said the Johnsons' son is going to a very expensive university.
If the information is still true at the moment of reporting it, 
we keep the present tense after "said".

Karen said the Petersons left their rubbish out on the street.
Using the past simple ("left") after "said" makes the action appear recent.

--------------------------
5. Collocations with commonly confused verbs - Learn collocations with "to say", "to tell" and "to speak"

She decided to finally speak her mind, tell the truth, and say sorry for the misunderstanding.
"to speak", "to say" and "to tell" have similar meanings but are not used interchangeably.

to speak one's mind
Feel free to speak your mind in the meeting.

He's not afraid to speak his mind, no matter the situation.
"To speak one's mind" means to express thoughts openly.

I always speak my mind.
Dolores says she always says what she thinks.
* "To speak one's mind" means to express thoughts openly.

to speak up
Please speak up. I can't hear you well.

During the lecture, the professor asked the students to speak up.
* The professor asked the students to speak in a louder voice.

If you want everyone to hear your announcement, you'll need to speak up.
"To speak up" is to speak in a louder voice.

to say goodbye
She had to say goodbye to her childhood home.

It's always difficult to say goodbye to close friends.
We use the verb "to say" with expressions such as "to say hello / hi / goodbye".

to say sorry
She realised her mistake and quickly said sorry.

He knew he was wrong and immediately said sorry.
We use the verb "to say" with the expression "to say sorry".

to speak your mind
to say goodbye

to tell a story
This book tells a story of friendship and adventure.

My grandfather used to tell us stories about his childhood.
We use the verb "to tell" with the expression "to tell a story".

to tell the truth
She told the truth about what had really happened.

She was relieved when she told the truth.
We use the verb "to tell" with expressions such as "to tell the truth / to tell a lie".

You never _____sorry first. - say
Can you please _____up? - speak
You _____ great stories. - tell

She hugged her friends and said goodbye before boarding the plane.
We use the verb "to say" with expressions such as "to say hello / hi / goodbye".

She spoke her mind about the controversial topic.
"To speak one's mind" means to express thoughts openly. 
Notice the irregular past form of "to speak" – "spoke".

Under pressure, he finally told the truth about the accident.
We use the verb "to tell" with the expression "to tell the truth". 
Notice the irregular past form of "to tell" – "told".

------------------------
6. Understanding vloggers - Listen to vloggers talk about their job

What’s going on guys? So today we are going to answer one of the most asked 
questions that we get and that is: how do you ​make money​ and travel full time​?
Bee: So a little bit about us if you’re new to the channel. I’m Bee, this is 
Theo and we’ve been travelling​ since 2014. We started off in our camper van​ 
and then got a ​narrow boat​ as well. Theo: So today we’re going to talk to 
you about the ways that we create an ​income​ and travel around the world​. 
And one of the important things about being successful​ is ​working from where 
you are happy and for me, that is in this beautiful tree.
Bee: That looks so comfortable!

What are Theo and Bee going to talk about in the video?
how to earn money while travelling
They're going to answer the most asked question that they get: 
"How do you make money and travel full time?"

"We've been travelling since 2014" means they started in 2014 and 
they continue travelling.

We started off in our camper van​ and then got a ​narrow boat​ as well.
"A camper van" has its own engine while "a caravan" needs to be pulled 
by a car. "A boat" is smaller than a ship.

That looks so comfortable!
Notice how Bee doesn't pronounce "or" in "comfortable" and links "t" and "f".

Theo says the first thing to do to make money online is to set up a website.
Theo said the first thing to do is always create​ a really nice-looking website.

up and running
I fixed some issues and the computer is up and running again.

We had our website up and running within two days.
"Up and running" means "working", so they were able to create their website in two days.

Theo makes money from selling his photographs and video clips.
He makes money from stock photography – creating photos, illustrations or 
videos and selling them.

Theo is happy about his professional situation.
He says that it's brilliant that he can make money from doing something he loves.

Theo and Bee opened an online shop.
Having a ​shop​ on their website was the perfect place to be able t​o sell​ Theo's prints.

Having the ​shop​ has been a fantastic way to have an i​ncome​ 
as we are travelling​ f​ull time​.
"Income" means money that is earned from doing work.

Theo and Bee record podcasts.
Theo and Bee record podcasts (audio programmes) where they interview people.

They go around and interview people who live alternative lifestyles.

----------------------------
7. Reporting somebody's words - Practise reporting somebody's words

"We are going to answer one of the most asked questions." - somebody's direct words

He said they were going to answer one of the most asked questions.
reporting somebody's words

We report somebody's words with the past form of the verb "to say".

Theo said that that day they were going to answer one of the most asked questions.
With the past verb "said", we have to adjust the verbs and 
time reference to the past perspective.

She said she's Bee.
If we report something that is still true, we can use the present tense: 
She said she is Bee.

Theo said he likes photography. - Theo still likes photography.

Theo said he liked photography.
Theo liked photography when he said the sentence.

We keep the present tense in reported speech when the information is still 
true at the time of reporting it.

Theo said there's loads of different things they do to make money.
Because the information is still true, we don't have to change 
the present tense to past tense.

She said that a couple of years ago they'd had a really cool idea.
In reported speech, we change "had" to "had had", 
to emphasise that the event happened before the time of reporting.

Theo said they had had their website up and running within two days.
Because a lot of time has passed between the moment it happened and reporting 
it, we change "had" to "had had".

Theo said they bought a boat. Buying the boat seems recent.
Theo said they'd bought a boat. Buying the boat seems distant in time
When a lot of time has passed between the moment the event happened and 
reporting it, we change "had" to "had had".

She said they'd started off in their camper van.
When we report somebody's words, we need to adjust the reference 
to people to the speaker's perspective.

Bee said many people had wanted to buy prints all the time.
Because a lot of time has passed between the moment it happened and reporting 
it, we change "wanted" to "had wanted".

Bee said they've been travelling since 2014.
Because the sentence is still true at the moment of reporting it, 
we don't change the original verb tense.

Theo said they would see us on the next video.
When we report somebody's words, we need to adjust the reference to people and 
verb tense to the speaker's perspective.

------------------------
8. Reporting somebody's words informally - Learn to use informal alternatives to reported speech

She didn't answer her messages.
Ava said that Charlotte never responds to her text messages even 
when she sees her active on social media.

Ava was like, "I don't understand why you never respond to my texts."
"Ava was like" means "Ava said".
"Was like" can be used instead of "said" in informal situations.
* After "was/were like" we use direct speech – somebody's exact words, 
so we don't change tenses.

Informal alternatives to reported speech
*************************************
Reported speech is often omitted in informal spoken conversations. Instead, 
you can hear "she was like" / "she went" to report somebody else's words.

Both forms are used with direct speech so you don't have to change tenses or 
references to people, places and times.

I/she/he was like...
She was like, "I don't get why you don't respond to my texts".

I/she/he went...
And I went, "What are you talking about?"

I was like, "I respond when I can."
"I was like" is an informal alternative to "I said".

And she went, "I see you active on social media so why not reply to my messages."
"She went" is an informal alternative to "she said".

She was like, "I have other things going on."- more common in spoken language
She said she had other things going on. - more common in written language
"She was like" is an informal spoken alternative to "she said".

She was like, "I'm not available."
"She was like" is an informal alternative to "she said".

She said she'd seen me active on social media and I said I had other things to do.
"Said" is used to report a conversation in neutral or formal situations.

She was like, "You never respond to my texts" and I went, "I respond when I can".
"She was like" / "I went" are used to report a conversation in an informal situation.

---------------------------
9. Developing fluency - Talk about a message you received

a conversation she had
Marysia is talking about a conversation she had with a friend through text messages.

She said that she was going out.
The fact is no longer true at the moment of reporting so "is" changes 
to "was" in the reported speech.

I said I couldn't go because I needed to get up early to catch a plane.
The speaker uses past simple to report the words because 
it happened a week ago and is no longer true.

I said that we should meet another time.
The verb "should" never changes its form in reported speech.

Feedback from the Busuu Community
********************************
Hi Marysia!
I could understand perfectly what you were saying. So the communication was 
effective. I liked the informal "She was like", it made you sound quite 
natural. Keep it up!
Just be careful about time references when you talk about something that 
happened in the past. For example:
1. She said she was going out that night NOT tonight.
2. I said I needed to get up early the following/next day NOT tomorrow.

time references
The feedback says the communication was effective but she needs to be careful 
about time references in reported speech.

using an informal structure
In the feedback, it says that using the informal structure "she was like" made 
her sound natural.

She said she was going out that night.
For events in reported speech that are no longer true, 
we change the time reference. "Tonight" changes to "that night".

I said, "I need to get up early tomorrow."
I said I needed to get up early the next day.
For events that are no longer true, we change the time reference. "Tomorrow" 
changes to "the next / following day".




























































































































































































































