Fears and feats

1. Relative clauses - Using relative clauses to give more information

The man who painted your house was very professional.
* The sentence gives us information about the noun in bold.

We played incredibly well in the first half of the match.
The company which I used to work for has just been sold.

What are relative clauses?
We can use relative clauses to give information about people, things and events. 
We introduce relative clauses with the relative pronouns who, which, that and whose.

The man who painted your house was very professional.
The company which I used to work for has just been sold.

I met a lady whose son is a football player.
I like the cakes that have cream on them.
I live in the house with a blue door.

We can give information about a noun with adjectives and 
adjectival phrases without using a relative clause:

I like blue cars. I like cars with lots of space.

How are relative clauses formed?
Relative clauses include a verb and give information about the noun:

I like cars that are blue.
I like cars which have lots of space.
I like people who are funny.
I have a friend that lives near you.

I have a pen that you can borrow.
It's a company which produces mobile phones.
The artist whose painting I bought.

Relative pronouns for people
We can use "who" or "that" for people.
The lady who / that owns the business.

Relative pronouns for things

We use "that" or "which" for things.
The car that / which I bought.

The relative pronoun "whose"
We use "whose" for possessives.
This is the man whose art I was telling you about. (i.e. The man's art)

The person who I live with.
The lady I live with.
I love books that make me think.

Omitting the relative pronoun

Sometimes the relative pronoun can be omitted. 
This happens when the pronoun is not the subject of the relative clause:

The lady (that) I live with. - "I" is the subject of the relative clause, 
and "that" is optional.

Keeping the relative pronoun
When the pronoun is the subject of the relative clause we must use "that".
I love books that make me think. - "that" is needed 
as it is the subject of the relative clause.

She's the type of person who works very hard.
I have a car which is 50 years old.
I live with people who study at your university.
The man whose house was broken into.
Lots of people I meet have tattoos.
You should buy food that|which is locally grown.
I like people who|that know how to enjoy themselves!
I want a mobile phone that|which has a camera.
The author whose book won the prize.
My father is the one who|that does the cleaning.

------------------------
2. The third conditional - Learn the function and the form

I wouldn't have moved if I had found a job in my hometown.
* Forms "wouldn't have moved" and "had found" suggest a past situation.

I wouldn't have moved if I had found a job in my hometown.
He would have spent more time with his friends and family and 
he'd probably have bought a house with a garden.

What is the third conditional for?
The third conditional is used to talk about
● unreal past situations
● imagined past consequences

We use the third conditional to talk about a past situation that didn't happen.

If I had listened to you, we would have got lost.
"We would have got lost" is an unreal situation that the speaker imagines.

The building wasn't destroyed because people protested.

What is a conditional sentence?
● A conditional sentence has two parts – a condition and a result.
If my parents hadn’t met (condition), I wouldn’t have been born (result).
● Very often you’ll see “if” with the condition.

We would have arrived earlier - result
if the car hadn't broken down - condition

If you hadn't lied to us , we would have invited you .
The condition comes after "if". A comma separates the condition and the result.

How do you form the third conditional?
A conditional sentence has two parts – an unreal result and a condition.

Condition: if + past perfect
● If my parents hadn’t met, I wouldn’t have been born.

Result: "would" + "have" + past participle.
● If my parents hadn’t met, I wouldn’t have been born.

condition                           result
If I hadn’t driven too fast,        I wouldn’t have had a car crash.

would have + past participle - result
past perfect - condition

If you had answered the phone, you would have known we weren't home.
"if you had answered" – condition in the past; "if you answered" – condition in present

If you had given me the book, I would have read it.
"would have read" – unreal result in the past; "would read" – unreal result in present

He would have been on the call if his internet hadn't been down.
The result – would + have + past participle

She would have visited us if she had known the address.

If the subscription had cost more, I would have cancelled it.
The condition is in past perfect – had cost. The past participle of "cost" is "cost".

If I had noticed you, I would have said hello.

If my laptop hadn't|had not had antivirus software, it would have been hacked.
Past perfect of "have" is "had/hadn't had". It might look funny but it's correct.

I wouldn't have got rid of my old mobile if it had worked properly.
"Wouldn't have got" is common in UK English. 
"Wouldn't have gotten" is common in US English.

I wouldn't have taken the taxi if the bus had come on time.
"come" in past perfect = had come

He would have been on the call if his internet hadn't been down.
The result – would + have + past participle

------------------------
3. Pronouncing the third conditional - Notice "'d" and the weak "have"

I'd have caught the flight if there hadn't been so much traffic.
"I'd" means "I would".
* In everyday fast speech, "would" in conditionals is abbreviated to "'d".

If you'd cancelled the meeting, we'd never have met.
"You'd" means "you would".
If you'd cancelled = If you had cancelled; it's a condition clause.

"'d" in the third conditional
In everyday speech, "had" and "would" in the third conditional become "'d".

Unnatural slow speech
I would have baked some cookies if I had had a better oven.

Natural speech 
I'd have baked some cookies if I'd had a better oven.

What does "'d" mean in each example?
If we'd known your mother, (...) - had
(...), we'd have invited her. - would
Condition clause "'d" = had; result clause "'d" = would

We'd have solved the problem if you'd been open about it.
Seriously, I'd have complained if you'd felt dissatisfied.
She'd have returned the book if she hadn't lost it.
"Have" in the result clause sounds very weak, a little bit like "of".

The weak "have"
In everyday speech, "have" in the third conditional is not stressed 
and sounds weak, a little bit like "of".

unnatural slow speech
I would have eaten breakfast if I had felt better.

natural everyday speech
I'd have eaten breakfast if I'd felt better.

She wouldn't have offered her help if you hadn't told her to.
If my alarm had gone off , I wouldn’t have been late to work.
Karen wouldn't have phoned the police if she hadn't been afraid.
If the baker's hadn't closed, we'd have bought some more bread.

-------------------
4. The third conditional in context - Read about accidental discoveries

to run out of
I've run out of milk again.

They've run out of eggs = they've used all of the eggs.

Michael , we run out of eggs.
Can you bring some more on your way back from work.

If Mrs Wakefield hadn’t run out of baker’s chocolate...
Chocolate chip cookies were invented when Mrs Wakefield, a restaurant owner 
in Massachusetts, USA, was making her regular chocolate cookies. 
She ran out of baker’s chocolate, so she replaced it with broken pieces of chocolate. 
She thought it would melt and look like her usual chocolate cookies but it didn’t. 
Instead, the chocolate chip cookie was born.

It was an accidental discovery. It would never have happened if Mrs Wakefield 
hadn’t run out of baker’s chocolate. If she hadn’t run out of her usual 
chocolate, she wouldn’t have replaced it with broken pieces of chocolate. And 
if the chocolate pieces had melted, chocolate chip cookies wouldn’t have been 
born that day.

The chocolate Mrs Wakefield added didn't melt.
Mrs. Wakefield thought the chocolate would melt but it didn't.

It would never have happened if Mrs Wakefield hadn’t run out of baker’s chocolate.
Past participle of "happen" is "happened" and of "run out" is "run out". 
"Ran out" is the past simple form.

If she hadn’t run out of her usual chocolate, 
she wouldn’t have replaced it with broken pieces of chocolate.
"Wouldn’t have replaced" – unreal result in the past. 
"Wouldn't replace" – unreal result in the present

If the chocolate pieces had melted, chocolate chip cookies wouldn’t have been born.
Unreal condition in the past – "if the chocolate pieces had melted".

If it hadn't been a freezing night...
Frank Epperson was 11 years old when he invented the Popsicle. 
One night, he left a cup with a soda outside his house overnight. 
There was also a stick in the cup. 
It was a freezing night and when he woke up the next morning, 
he discovered the drink had frozen to the stick.

Which sentence is true about the discovery of popsicles?
The soda in the cup froze to the stick.
It was a freezing night and when he woke up the next morning, 
he discovered the drink had frozen to the stick.

If it hadn't been a freezing night, the drink wouldn't have frozen to the stick.
"It was a freezing night" – real past situation. 
"If it hadn't been a freezing night" – unreal condition in the past.

Frank invented the Popsicle because one night he left a cup 
with a soda drink outside his house.
Frank wouldn't have invented the popsicle if he hadn't left a cup 
with a soda drink outside his house.

"He left a cup with soda" – real past situation; 
"If he hadn't left a cup with soda" – unreal condition in the past.

If there hadn't been a stick in the cup, the drink wouldn't have frozen to the stick.
Unreal past result – "wouldn't have frozen"; unreal present result – "wouldn't freeze".

thin
I like thin pancakes.

thick
This slice of bread is too thick.

A thick book has many pages.
"Thick" and "thin" are opposites.

If the customer hadn't constantly complained ...
The first potato chip was invented by George Crum in 1853. 
He ran a restaurant and had a customer who was constantly complaining 
about his potatoes. Apparently, they were too thick.
At some point, Crum got so annoyed with the customer that he decided to cut 
the potatoes so thin that the customer would leave the restaurant. 
But the customer didn’t get angry, quite the opposite. He loved the new chips. 
After that, they became a regular item on the restaurant’s menu.

Why did George Crum decide to cut the potatoes very thin?
to make the customer angry

He got annoyed with a customer who complained about his thick potatoes. 
He cut them thin to make the customer angry.

If he hadn't run a restaurant, he wouldn't have had an annoying customer.
If the customer hadn't loved the new chips, they wouldn't have appeared on the menu.

If Crum hadn't got so annoyed with the customer, 
he wouldn't have cut the potatoes extremely thin.
It's an unreal result in the past – "wouldn't have cut".

The customer loved the new chips. After that, 
they became a regular item on the restaurant menu.
The new chips wouldn't have become a regular item on the restaurant menu 
if the customer hadn't loved them.
If the customer hadn't loved the chips, (...) – unreal condition in the past.

Karen wouldn't have phoned the police if she hadn't been afraid.
If my laptop hadn't|had not had antivirus software, it would have been hacked.
If the subscription had cost more, I would have cancelled it
I wouldn't have taken the taxi if the bus had come on time.

































































































































































































































































































































































































