Chapter 3: Future plans

1. Talking about future plans
Compare "going to", future simple and present continuous

This evening I'm going snorkelling. 
Tomorrow I'm going to sunbathe on the beach. 
But I have no plans for Sunday. 
Maybe I'll go hiking.

We can talk about future plans in three 
different ways with a slight change in meaning.

Different future situations
We can talk about future plans in three 
different ways with a slight change in meaning.

intentions or decisions taken before now
I'm going to spend a month abroad.

plans in which arrangements have been made
I'm seeing the doctor at 4pm.

instant decision taken while speaking
I'll go with you.

I'm visiting a new city in June.
I've thought about it before and already bought the hotel.

I'm going to stay at home this summer.
I've thought about it before and it's my intention.

I'll go to the beach in August.
I've just decided.

The speaker saw the bag and made a quick decision 
to help, so he says "I'll help you."

Look, here comes your suitcase!
I'll get it!

It's more correct to use "will" here, 
because the speaker is making a quick decision.

We are going to go on a city break next month.
This sentence refers to a prior plan 
in the future, so the "be going to" form is used.

My friend and I are going to go 
to the night market on Saturday.

My friend and I are going to go to 
the night market on Saturday.
It's a decision taken before the moment of speaking.

spontaneous သူ့အလိုလို

My scuba diving trip to Egypt was really fun. 
I'll show you some photos later!

Use the future simple for spontaneous decisions 
taken at the time of speaking.

A: What are you doing next weekend?
She's asking about her friend's plans f
or the weekend, so she uses the "present continuous".

I'm visiting friends in Istanbul next weekend.
We can also say "I'm going to visit friends...".

Are you going to go somewhere nice this summer?
To talk about future holiday plans that aren't 
confirmed yet, we use: "Are you going to go..."

You book the flights and I'll book the hotel.
Use the future simple for spontaneous decisions 
taken at the time of speaking.

The staff were nice but the rooms were small 
and dirty - we won't stay there again.

We want to use the shortened negative 
form of "will not", which is "won't".

The flight is departing in one hour, sir.

Use the present continuous and "be going to" 
for plans that have been arranged 
before the time of speaking.

I'm going to go on a trip next weekend. 
Could you feed my cat, please?

2.Asking about plans
Learn informal ways to ask about plans

Got any plans for the weekend?
We can omit "have you" in the question 
"have you got" in informal situations.

Informal questions
In informal situations, we can omit the subject 
(I, you, she etc.) and the auxiliary verb 
(be, have) in questions.

formal / neutral
Have you got any plans for the weekend?
Are you going out tonight?

informal
Got any plans for the weekend?
Going out tonight?

Going on a trip this weekend? - informal
Are you going on a trip this weekend? - formal / neutral

We make the question sound informal by eliminating 
the auxiliary verb and the subject ("are you").

Got anything on this weekend?

Gisele, got anything on this weekend?
The expression "to have something on" means to have plans.

Got anything on today?
"Got anything on today?" is an informal version of 
"Have you got anything on today?".

Doing anything special this weekend?
In this question, we use "doing" instead of the 
words "are you doing" in informal situations.

Mia, doing anything special tonight?
The speaker is asking about Mia's arranged plans.
We use the present continuous in "(are you) doing" 
to talk about arranged future plans.

Doing anything special today?
Got anything on today?

VOCABULARY
Got any plans for the weekend?
Got anything on this weekend?
Doing anything special this weekend?

3. Talking about future predictions
Practise using "to be going to" and 
future simple for predictions

We're going to have a fantastic holiday next summer. 
I feel like I will disconnect this time.

In this sentence, "be going to" and "will" are 
used to express future predictions.

Expressing predictions
There are two main ways to talk about predictions 
– using "be going to" or the future simple 
("will" + infinitive).
Even though there are slight differences 
in meaning, they're often used interchangeably.

predictions based on evidence
Look at the clouds. It's going to rain.

predictions based on your opinion and feelings
I think she'll get the job.

It's really late. I'm going to miss the plane.
The speaker uses "I'm going to" to make 
a prediction based on evidence.

I think our family trip to Paris will be unforgettable.
The speaker uses the future simple ("will" + 
infinitive) to make a prediction based on feelings.

This hotel is going to be luxurious.It has five starts.
This hotel will be luxurious.I have a feeling about it.

predictions based on evidence = "be going to", 
predictions based on feelings = future simple

Have you seen the weather forecast? 
It's going to rain heavily tomorrow.
We use "be going to" + infinitive to make 
predictions based on evidence like the weather forecast.

I'm sure the local food will be delicious.
Look at the prices on the leaflet! 
The trip's going to|is going to be more expensive 
than we thought.

Look at the dolphin! It's going to jump.
I'm sure the kids will|are going to|'re going 
to enjoy building sandcastles.

She's taking out her mobile. 
I think she's going to|is going to|will take a selfie.

4. Understanding plans and predictions
Listen to people talk about plans

Listen. What are Nasir and Lottie talking about?

Nasir:
Hey Lottie, doing anything special this weekend?

Lottie:
Hey Nasir, I'm not sure yet to be honest.

Nasir:
I've heard on the news the weather is going to be fantastic.

Lottie:
So maybe I'll go on a fishing trip with my dad. 
He's been asking me to go fishing with him for ages.

Nasir:
That could be fun!

Lottie:
No, believe me, the fishing's going to be boring. 
But I'll spend some time with my dad and that's cool. 
What about you? Got anything on this weekend?

Nasir:
I'm working this Saturday.

Lottie:
Is it busy at the hospital these days?

Nasir:
It's not too bad, but I think it will get busier 
over the weekend, as usual.

What are Nasir and Lottie talking about?
their weekend plans

5. Developing fluency
Talk about weekend plans

Do you have anything on this weekend?

Saturday: lunch and cinema with a friend; 
Sunday: a walk with her dog, visiting her parents.

We're going to the cinema on Saturday.
On Sunday morning, I'm taking my dog for a long walk.

On Saturday, I am meeting|going to meet 
my best friend for lunch.

On Saturday, I'll visit|will visit my parents.



































































































































































































































































































































































































































































