Chapter 5: Mobile phones

1. Getting a phone plan
Learn vocabulary to talk about phone plans

I stream video on my cellphone, 
so I need a plan with lots of data.

A phone plan describes how much data you can use 
for the price you pay the phone company.

a plan
My plan gives me unlimited data so I can stream videos 
on my way to work!

What kind of plan options do you offer?
The customer wants to talk about mobile phone services.
In the context of mobile phones, a "plan" is a deal you 
have to use your phone.

a pay-as-you-go plan
Do you have any pay-as-you-go SIM plans?

If you have a contract, you pay the same amount each month. 
"Pay-as-you-go" plans have no fixed amount.

a contract
This particular plan is only available on a 24-month contract.

I don't want a contract – do you have any pay-as-you-go plans?
Paying the same amount every month = "contract"; 
paying for only what you use = "pay-as-you-go"

You pay for what you use. - a pay-as-you-go plan
You pay the same amount monthly. - a contract

A "pay-as-you-go plan" is flexible (better for short stays). 
A "contract" is long-term, e.g. 12 months.

VOCABULARY
a plan
a pay-as-you-go plan
a contract

2. Noticing regional differences
Learn the difference between "a cell" and "a mobile"

The words "mobile phone" and 
"cell phone" mean the same.

The words "a mobile" and "a cell" mean the same 
but are used in different parts of the world.

Regional differences in vocabulary
English is a global language and sometimes 
there are regional differences in vocabulary.

a cell (phone)
the US and Canada

a mobile (phone)
the UK, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Ireland

I stream video on my cellphone, so I need a plan 
with lots of data.
She uses the word "cellphone", which is typically heard 
in the US and Canada.

a cell (phone) - the US and Canada
a mobile (phone) - UK, South Africa, Ireland

These regional differences don't normally 
cause confusion and both are absolutely understood.

You can use as much data as you like with 
this plan – it's unlimited!

Regional differences in pronunciation
English is a global language and sometimes 
there are regional differences in pronunciation.

data
the US and Canada

data
the UK, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Ireland

3. Talking about phone plans
Learn vocabulary to talk about plan features

a strong signal
My phone always has a strong signal, even in bad weather.
The speaker can hardly hear, so she has no signal 
(to have no signal).

unlimited calls
I use my phone for business, so I need unlimited calls.
I prefer to send messages, so I don't really 
need unlimited calls.

"Unlimited calls" means you can make as many calls 
as you want.

data
I get 15 GB of data with my current plan.
"The Premium plan" offers 20 GB more data than 
the other plan ("The Lite plan").
You can use as much data as you like with 
this plan – it's unlimited!

If you have "unlimited data", you can use the internet 
as much as you want on your phone.

a deal
I got a great deal on my new cellphone.
iPhones are expensive, but I got a great deal on this one.

"I got a great deal" means that he paid less 
for the phone than he would normally expect to pay.

If you get "a deal", it generally means you get 
excellent value for the price you are paying.

VOCABULARY
a strong signal
unlimited calls
data
a deal

4. Explaining what you need
Listen to a customer explaining what she needs

I'm looking to get a contract.
Use "I'm looking to get..." to explain what service you need.
The speaker explains what service she needs.

I'm looking for a good deal on a phone plan.

What kind of features are you looking for in your new plan?
Use "I'm looking for..." to say you want to buy something.

I'm looking for a good deal and I'm particularly 
looking to get a plan with unlimited data.

"I'm looking for..." and "I'm looking to get..." have 
the same meaning but different prepositions.

Marga:
Hi there! I'm looking to get a new contract 
that's right for me.

Shop assistant:
Hello! Sure thing. 
What kind of features are you looking for in your new plan?

Marga:
Well, I live in a rural area where it's hard to get 
a good signal sometimes.

Shop assistant:
I see. We have plans that work well even in rural areas.

Marga:
That's good to know! 
Also, I use my phone a lot for work and watching 
videos, so having unlimited data would be great.

Shop assistant:
Absolutely, we have plans with unlimited data 
so you can use your phone for as much work and 
fun stuff as you want.


with unlimited data
Marga needs a contract with unlimited data and a strong signal.

I'm looking to get a new contract plan that's right for me.
Marga needs a plan with a fixed monthly fee.
If you have a contract, it means you pay 
the same amount each month.

I live in a rural area where it's hard to get 
a good signal sometimes.

VOCABULARY
I'm looking to get a contract.
I'm looking for a good deal on a phone plan.

5. Developing fluency
Describe a phone plan you need

I'm looking to get a pay-as-you-go plan.
Notice the hyphens in "pay-as-you-go". 
They mean that these words together act as an adjective.

Unlimited data is very important to me.
I'm looking for a great deal on a contract.







































































































































































































































































































































































































































