Mental health

1. Discussing hobbies - Talk about hobbies and time for self care

to be overwhelmed
I have a lot of work at the moment. I am very overwhelmed!

to unwind
I usually unwind by reading a book.
* Julia likes to read a book to relax.

I feel overwhelmed because of all my deadlines!

to have a lot on
I have a lot on at the moment, so I can't come to the party.

to make time for
At the weekend I like to make time for myself.

to have a lot on - to schedule something
to make time for something - to be very busy

to put pressure on oneself
My brother puts a lot of pressure on himself to succeed at university.
* He studies hard to get good grades.

me time
I have been really busy lately, I need some me time!

Did you notice❓
We use phrases such as "me time" or "alone time" to talk about time 
we spend focusing on ourselves. 
It's important to do this when we are feeling overwhelmed!

We are now going to see how some people spend their "me time" and manage their stress.

to take yoga classes
I take yoga classes in the evening because they help me sleep.

to take part in group therapy
I take part in group therapy once a month.

When I put too much pressure on myself, taking part in group therapy really helps me.

to join a walking club
I joined a walking club so I could get away from the city at the weekend!

I take yoga classes in the evening because they help me sleep.
* Taking yoga classes helps Sara unwind before bed.

There are many ways people can choose to spend their "me time." 
Below are a few more examples. Notice the verbs we use with these activities.

to take cooking classes
to join a book club
to take part in volunteer projects

I have decided to take cooking classes.
When I am overwhelmed, taking yoga classes helps me to unwind.

to make time for - schedule

My boyfriend has joined a book club recently.

I often take part in group therapy.
My sister wants to join a walking club.
I take yoga classes to unwind after work.
My mom has a lot on at the moment.
She takes yoga classes.

-------------------
2. Expressing overwhelm - Talk about taking time for yourself

Sean
Hey Alice! How's it going?

Alice
Oh hi Sean, I'm ok. I'm a bit overwhelmed at the moment -  
I have a lot on at university.

Sean
Oh dear, I know how you feel. Remember, you do need to make time for yourself. 
Are you still taking yoga classes?

Alice
No, I'm not. I want to join a book club though.

Sean
Reading is a great way to unwind! 
Would you like to take part in any volunteer projects? 
At the moment I am helping at the local hospital once a week after lectures. 
I know it's not exactly alone time but it's good to do something different.

Alice
That sounds good actually! I'd like to find out more.

After the exam I will take a walk to unwind
* A verb we use to talk about relaxing after a busy period.

Time we spend focusing on ourselves.
I have been so busy lately, I need some me|alone time.
I want to take yoga classes.
Remember you do need to make time for yourself.

-------------------
3. Present perfect continuous - Form the present perfect continuous

There are two uses of the present perfect continuous. 
We can use it to either express that an action began at a certain point 
in the past and is still happening, or we can use it to speak about 
something that's been happening recently.

They've been speaking for an hour.
They've been working out a lot.

She's searching for a new flat.
* This sentence is in the present tense.

They've been speaking for an hour.
* The present perfect continuous indicates that they started speaking 
in the past and they're still speaking.

we use the present perfect continuous
When an action began in the past and is still happening.

Form the present perfect continuous
Here's how we form the present perfect continuous:
"have / has" + "been" + present participle of the verb

He has been doing yoga for three months.
I have been struggling with my workload.

They have been talking for an hour .
Use " have / has (not) been " + " -ing " verb for actions 
that started in the past and still continue.

We have been working on this project for hours.
You have been eatig healthily.
He has been doing yoga for three months.
I have been struggling with my workload.

We often use the present perfect continuous with a specific duration 
to clarify how long an action has continued.

He's been going to the gym since January.
They've been training for that marathon for six months.
I've been listening to the radio for the last hour.
They have been practising for weeks .

We form negative sentences by putting "not" before "been".
I have not been spending enough alone time.
They have not been sleeping well.
Paula has not been sleeping very well .
We have not been feeling very well.

To ask a question in the present perfect continuous, 
"have / has" swaps position with the person doing the action.

He has been doing yoga all day.
Has he been doing yoga all day?
Have you been doing yoga ?
Have you been struggling with work
Have you been working a lot lately?

-----------------
4. Understanding a radio show - Listen to a radio show on mental health

Radio One: Let's talk mental health!
You're going to listen to a radio show on emotional wellbeing. 
What approaches to improving mental wellbeing does the host discuss with her callers? 
Prepare by looking at some of the expressions you're going to hear.

mental health
to have trouble falling asleep
It's not up to us.
I've been in your position before.
To give and ask for life advice.

Tell us what you've been doing for your mental health.
He's not sleeping well.

I've been having trouble falling asleep.
Have you been having problems at work?
There are certain things in life that are just not up to us.
* This sentence means that there are things in our lives we have no control over.

no pressure and time to relax

to unwind - relaxing after work or tension
it's not up to you - you can't do anything about it
you put yourself under pressure - you're forcing yourself to do certain things

We've all been the position before.
* She shares a similar experience.

Before we move on to listen to the next caller, 
have a look below and make sure you understand the meanings of the words and expressions.

to struggle with mental health issues
to develop depression
anxiety
to doubt yourself
to be patient with yourself

I struggled with mental health issues for most of my teenage years.

I've been developing a bit of an anxiety issue, 
where my heart's beating really fast and 
I get overwhelmed by the fear of messing something up, you know?

I think I have been developing an anxiety issue.
I've had a lot on recently.
Everyone is insecure sometimes.
to take deep breaths

-----------------
5. Cause and effect language - Practise expressing cause and effect

We use different language to introduce causes and effects of our actions.
Introducing a cause
since, because, as a result of, because of, due to

Introducing an effect
so, therefore

Since I started working out, I feel stronger.
* "Since" introduces a cause.
… therefore she does yoga."

Since I got a membership, I have been to many gym classes.
I am not running today as a result of my sore knee.

* "since" and "as a result of" are both used to express a cause, 
but we need a noun after "as a result of".

I can't run at the moment because of my sore knee.
* Notice that we use a noun after " because of ".

If I go to the gym, I will get in shape.

Because of the gym's app, we can easily sign up for classes.
Due to the gym's app, we can easily sign up for classes
I did not enjoy the classes at my gym, therefore I cancelled my membership.
I wanted to try pilates so I got a gym membership.
I am frustrated due to my injury.
Emily is more flexible as a result of her yoga classes.
Sophie is in shape because of|as a result of|due to her fitness plan.
I was not in shape so I got a gym membership.
I'm more motivated, because of my fitness plan.
I did not enjoy the gym classes, therefore|so I cancelled my membership.
Due to my busy work schedule, I haven't been to the gym for a long time.
If I get a place on the team, I will train very hard.
As a result of her injury, she cannot train.
I did not enjoy the gym classes, so I cancelled my membership.

--------------------
6. Developing fluency - Talk about things you do to relax

physical activities
She needs to be physically active, and quiet activities 
such as painting or reading don't work for her.
I need to be physically active, especially when I feel overwhelmed at work.
I've been taking self-defence classes for six months now.
Self-defence classes really help me unwind and get in shape.

Justyna relaxes best when she's alone.
For some of us, being around people is relaxing but she needs alone time.
I could never join a group activity or a club.
I find reading books very relaxing.
He recharges his batteries when he's with his friends and family.

I make sure I make time for my family and friends.
"to make time for somebody" means to plan to spend time with somebody.

There are many things that help me recharge my batteries.
"to recharge batteries" means to relax in order to get energy back.

Paula has not been sleeping very well .
He has been going to the gym since January.
I have a lot on at university.
I have been so busy lately, I need some me|alone time.
Remember you do need to make time for yourself.
I want to take yoga classes.
I've had a lot on recently.
Everyone is insecure sometimes.
Because of the gym's app, we can easily sign up for classes.
There are certain things in life that are just not up to us.
I did not enjoy the gym classes, so I cancelled my membership.
As a result of her injury, she cannot train.
I was not in shape so I got a gym membership.
If I get a place on the team, I will train very hard.
I make sure I make time for my family and friends.
I take yoga classes in the evening because they help me sleep.
My mom has a lot on at the moment.



















































































































































