Expat life

4.1 - Relocating - Deal with life in a new country

I want to open a bank account.
You say "I want to open a bank account" when you want to open a bank account.

to fill out forms
Please fill out these forms.
* We use the phrasal verb "fill out" to talk about completing official forms.

We can also use the verb "to complete" when we talk about filling out forms.
Please fill out this form.
Please complete this form.

You must provide two types of identification.
When opening a new bank account you may be asked to provide identification.

Please provide at least two different types of identification, such as a passport or identity card.

The most common types of identification are "a passport" (a passport) and "a driving licence" (a driving licence).

open a bank account
fill out forms
provide two types of identification

to rent an apartment
I will rent an apartment in Seville during my year abroad.
* We say "you rent an apartment", when it belongs to someone else and we pay to live there.

Who are the people involved when you rent an apartment?

tenant                                          landlord
the person who pays to live in the apartment    the person who owns the apartment
a tenant "rents" the apartment                  a landlord "lets" their apartment

We say "rent an apartment" when you live in an apartment you do not own. Rent is also the name of the fee a tenant pays their landlord.
I paid rent at the end of the month.
My sister pays rent weekly.

I pay rent on the first day of the month.
When I live in Seville, I will rent an apartment.

* We usually pay rent ("pay rent") on a specific day of every month.

I want to open a bank account.
I pay rent weekly.

The tenant rents the apartment.
The landlord/landlady lets the apartment.
The rent is money the tenant pays to the landlord.

* The "landlord" (male) or "landlady" (female) is the person who owns the apartment you rent.

rent an apartment
open a bank account
sign a tenancy agreement

Hi, can I please open a bank account?

You must provide two forms of identification.
* Remember, we use the verb "provide" with the noun "identification".

I pay rent on the first day of the month, but my sister pays rent weekly.

You must sign a tenancy agreement before you receive the keys.
When you rent an apartment, you sign "a tenancy agreement".
A tenant rents an apartment.

I pay rent on the first day of the month.
The speaker says "I pay rent".

-----------------------
4.2 - Living abroad - Learn language for moving abroad

to sign
You must sign a tenancy agreement before you receive the keys.

We use the verb "to sign" with various documents, such as contracts.
I signed my employment contract yesterday.
You must sign your bank card before you use it.

to get a phone contract
I will get a phone contract when I arrive in Colombia.
* He says "I will get a phone contract", referring to the future, so he doesn't have a phone contract yet.

to look up
I will look up the meaning of the word.
* We use the phrasal verb "look up" when we want to search for a piece of specific information.

embassy
I need to find the embassy.
* As a citizen travelling or living abroad, you can go to "an embassy" for advice about your visa.

routine
I have to find a new routine.

When you move to a new place, you might have to find a new gym, supermarket or language classes. Day-to-day activities like this form part of a "routine."
I've just moved to Istanbul, so I have a new routine.
I have to find a new routine.
* She says "find". We use "look up" when talking about information, not a routine.
"I need to find the embassy."
I will get a phone contract.
I need to get a Turkish phone contract."

We can use "to sign" with "employment contract" and "tenancy agreement".
You can look up phone providers online.
* We can use the phrasal verb "look up" in a similar way to the verb "find".

I am going to the embassy to ask about my passport.

You can look up phone providers online.
* The phrasal verb "look up" means to search for something.

-----------------
4.3 - Questions in the past simple - Practise questions in the past simple

What did you have for dinner last night?
To ask a question about last night, we use the past simple form of "do", which is "did".

When did you arrive?
The main action is "arrive". The auxiliary verb "did" shows that this question is about a completed action in the past.

Present simple (habits, routines) What time do you get up?
Past simple (completed actions) What time did you get up?

"What time do you get up?" asks about a habit or routine.

We use the following structure to form a question in the "past simple":
(Wh- question word +) "did" + subject + verb (+ extra information)
Remember, the most common wh- question words are: when, which, what, who, where, why and how.
Did you go there?
When did you go there?
Why did you go there?
Who did you go there with?

why, what, when, which, where, whose, who
There are seven "wh-" question words: "why", "what", "when", "which", "where", "whose", and "who".

How did you meet your girlfriend?

Did you enjoy the party yesterday?
The question refers to the past ("yesterday"), so we use the past simple question form ("Did you enjoy...")

Who did you see at the party?
What did you eat?

Statement - I went abroad.
Yes / no question - Did you go on holiday?
Wh- question - Where did you go?

Who did you go on holiday with?


hen the main verb is "to be", we use the following structure to form a question in the past simple:
(Wh- question word +) "was" or "were" + subject (+ extra information)

you                         she
Were you there?             Was she there?
When were you there?        When was she there?
Why were you there?         Why was she there?
Who were you there with?    Who was she there with?

Was the party fun?
How was the food at the party?
What did you eat? How was the weather?
When did you arrive?

So far, we've practised using the past simple to talk about completed actions in the past. We also use the "past simple" as a more polite alternative to the present simple. Let's see some examples:
Present simple (casual)         Past simple (polite)
Do you need any help?           Did you need any help?
Do you have a reservation?      Did you have a reservation?

Thank you, madam. Did you want a receipt?
Did you have an appointment?

Casual - Do you want tea or coffee?
Polite - Did you want tea or coffee?

* We use the present simple "Do" to sound casual, and the past simple "Did" to sound polite.

Did you want milk?
We change the auxiliary verb "Did" to the past simple form, but the verb "want" doesn't change.

Did you have any questions?
Did you need any help, sir?
Did you want any side dishes with that?
 -----------------

4.4 - Mobile phones - Talking about mobile phone contracts

a SIM card
I don't need a new phone, only a new SIM.

a plan
My plan gives me unlimited data so I can stream videos on my way to work!

I stream video on my cellphone, so I need a plan with lots of data.
A phone plan describes how much data you can use for the price you pay the phone company.

Mobile or Cellphone? 📱
🕵️ Have you noticed we use different words to refer to mobile phones in this lesson? You can use the one which is best for your context:
🇺🇸 In the US people say "cellphone" or "cell"-
🇬🇧 In the UK people say "mobile phone" or "mobile"-

data
I get 15 GB of data with my current plan.
My phone company has two plans. 
On the "Lite plan" you get 5 GB of data per month,
 but on the "Premium plan" you get 25 GB.

unlimited calls
I use my phone for business, so I need unlimited calls.

I prefer to send messages, so I don't really need unlimited calls.
Unlimited calls means you can make as many calls as you want.

a contract
This particular plan is only available on a 24-month contract.

pay-as-you-go
Do you have any pay-as-you-go SIM plans? I don't want a contract because I'm only here for two months.
If you have a contract, you pay the same amount each month. "Pay-as-you-go" plans have no fixed amount.

I don't want a contract – do you have any pay-as-you-go plans?
* A pay-as-you-go plan ("pay-as-you-go") allows you to pay for only the calls and data you use.

a deal
I got a great deal on my new cellphone.
 I get a lot more benefits and I pay less!

iPhones are expensive, but I got a great deal on this one.
"I got a great deal" means that he paid less for the phone than he would normally expect to pay.

You can use as much data as you like with this plan – it's unlimited!
We use "much" with the uncountable noun "data". "Unlimited" means we can use as much as we like.

Did you want a contract or pay-as-you-go plan ?

a pay-as-you-go phone plan - You don't sign an agreement or pay the same price every month.
a 12 month phone contract - You pay a fixed price every month for one year.

My phone plan's great! I get 15 GB of data and unlimited calls for just $15 a month.
The adjective "unlimited" means the same as "as many as you want".

To pay less for a new phone you have to find... - a great deal.
To find out about the conditions of your phone plan, read... - the contract.

I don't need a new cell. Have you got any SIM card deals?

If you get a contract for 18 or 24 months, you can often get a new phone included in your plan.
The phrase "an amazing deal" indicates the price of the phone was very good for the quality.

-----------------
4.5 - Getting a phone contract - Listen to conversations in a phone shop

Listening

Listen to the conversation between the customer, Ken, and the shop assistant, Sam. 
What does Ken mainly use his phone for?

data - internet content delivered to mobile phones
unlimited - not restricted in quantity
contract - a written agreement

Ken says "mobile phone". People whose English is influenced by British English tend to say "mobile phone" or just "mobile", while in areas where US English is more influential people generally say "cell phone" or "cell". But as landlines become less common, speakers of English everywhere often simply refer to their mobile as a "phone".
Call me on my cell.
Have you seen my mobile anywhere?
She bought a new phone last week.

to bear with someone - to wait 
to go for something - to choose
to take down something - to write down

"I just need to take down your details", 

Getting a phone contract
Now you will listen to Sam take Ken's customer details. Before listening, check that you understand the following words and phrases:
No worries.
by the way
student ID
You're good to go.
Your account is all set up.
...if that's ok
Good stuff.

I need a new one please
please enter your name, email address and home address".

Sam, the shop assistant, asks Ken lots of questions in the "past simple". We often use the past tense to be polite.
Present simple: Do you want to pay now or next week? (casual)
Past simple: Did you want to pay now or next week? (polite)
Present simple: Do you have any other questions? (casual)
Past simple: Did you have any other questions? (polite)

Did you have any student ID?
Did you want to keep your existing phone number?
Was there anything else you needed help with today?
Because he's a student, Ken can get $5 off his bill for the first six months.

Please wait a moment. = bear with me a sec
The shop assistant says "bear with me a sec", which is another way to say "please wait a moment".

She dropped it the other day and the screen broke.
Did she have a care plan with us? - Yes, I printed a copy.

Bear with me a sec.
In this phrase "bear" sounds exactly the same as "bare" (naked), so make sure you spell it correctly!

The first months after moving to Belfast were hard.
I don't remember having any difficulty renting an apartment.
* "I have difficulty renting an apartment" means that renting an apartment is difficult for you.

Signing his tenancy agreement was stressful because his English was not good.
Signing my tenancy agreement was very stressful.
The day I signed my tenancy agreement was probably one of my most stressful days in Toronto.

Feng felt very proud of himself when he got his phone contract in Boston.
He asked the right questions and got a good phone contract, so he felt proud of himself.

I found a plan that worked for me and I made sure it included international texts and calls.

I felt so proud of myself when I signed the contract.
Notice that "signed" is spelled with a "g" which is not pronounced.

4.6 - Working in English - Listen to non-native speakers' thoughts on working in English

Chenxi is from China. 
He lives and works in the UK.
At work, he only speaks English.

Read the start of three sentences Chenxi is going to say. How do you think he will finish each one?

Well, I never feel completely comfortable speaking English at work because...
The most valuable advice I could give is...
I don't think anyone "owns" the English language, because...

He never feels comfortable speaking English at work because he would rather speak Chinese.
The most valuable advice he could give is to love the language you are learning.
He thinks that no one owns the English language because people speak English all over the world.

I would say at work I definitely speak more English with native English speakers.

Chenxi

I would say at work I definitely speak more English with native English speakers 
because most of the team members in my team they are British…, um…, 
but overall, living here in the UK I definitely feel I speak 
English more with no-native English Speakers
 because it’s a diverse city, with people from all over the world.

Well, I never feel completely comfortable speaking English at work because, 
if I had a choice, I would rather speak in Chinese.
I fell I have an American Accent
because that’s most movies I watched,
um.. are American movies. But living here in the UK for a while 
I definitely feel that I'm picking up the UK accent, a little bit.
The most valuable advice I could gave… I could give… is that,
 um… to love the language you are learning, 
 no matter it’s English or another language. 
 You need to discover first why you love this language and 
 why you wanna learn it. 
 If you are just learning it for no reason or 
 if you are just learning it for a test
 it might be difficult for you to you know keep motivated.

I don’t think anyone owns the English language, 
because unlike other languages which are,
 um… only spoken in a very small portion of the, the world, 
 English is spoken widely  around the world
  so it’s really hard to define who are the owners of English
   um… yeah, no one owns English really.

---------------
4.6 - Understanding others' experiences - Listen to non-native speakers' thoughts on working in English

Sophie is from France, but she lives and works in the UK. 
At work, she speaks English and sometimes a little French.

Sophie is going to answer the following five questions. What do you think she will say?

1. At work, who do you speak English with the most?
2. How long did it take you to feel comfortable speaking English at work?
3. Are you proud of your English?
4. How do you feel about your accent?
5. Who do you think "owns" the English language?








































