Festivals

1. Second conditional - Use the second conditional

If I had time, I would be there!

We use the second conditional to talk about hypothetical situations and their consequences.
We use it to talk about situations that are unlikely or imaginary, 
and what would happen if those situations were true.

If I wasn't busy this weekend, I would come to your graduation.
I would buy some new shoes if I had enough money this month. 

If I had space in the car, I would drive you to the party.
We use "would / wouldn't" + infinitive to talk about hypothetical present consequences.

I would give a speech, if I wasn't so nervous.

The second conditional has two parts:
"If" and the past simple introduce a hypothetical situation.
"Would" and the infinitive introduce the consequence of that hypothetical situation.
Either part can go first in the sentence.

If I had time (hypothetical situation), 
I would buy an outfit for the party (consequence).
You would enjoy the party (consequence) 
if you knew more people (hypothetical situation).

If I had time, - hypothetical situation
I would buy an outfit for the party. - consequence
If I didn't have a full car, I'd drive you to the party

Did you notice❓
We often use the contracted form of "would" ('d) 
when forming the second conditional.

If I didn't have a full car, I'd drive you to the party.
If Omar had time, he'd cut his hair before the wedding.
If I owned a suit, I 'd wear it.

Joe would know what time the wedding starts...
if he looked at the invitation.

If they had fewer plus-ones - hypothetical situation
there'd be more space in the venue. - consequence

We can use the second conditional construction to ask polite questions:
Would it be alright if I brought a plus one?

Would it be helpful if I gave grandpa a lift to the party?

If they didn't invite her, ...Lucy would be upset.

I would buy some new shoes, if I had enough money this month.
Luis is talking about a hypothetical situation.

Would it be alright, if I went home early?
Ellie wouldn't be able to go out if she had work tomorrow.

If they didn't invite her, Lucy would be upset.
If I had more time, I'd find a football club and join a team.
If Ella had more money, she would visit her best friend in Australia!

If I had enough money, I'd buy a new car.
James would pay his student loan if he earned more money.
If my parents won the lottery, they would move abroad!
If I didn't work, I would travel the world.
If you had time, would you take French classes?

Did you notice?
When introducing a hypothetical situation we use "were", 
especially when we use the second conditional 
to give advice or make suggestions. 
Occasionally, you may see "was" in its place.

If the week were 8 days long, Adam would visit his parents more often.
If I were you, I'd wear a suit.
If I were you, I'd try to get away for a while!
Would you buy this car if it were cheaper?
If I didn't work, I would travel the world.

--------------
2. Going to a festival - Get the most out of the festival experience

a wristband
First, you show your ticket to get your wristband, 
then you show your wristband to get into the festival.

camping
If you're planning on camping at the festival, 
don't pitch your tent near the toilets - 
the smell and slamming doors will give you sleepless nights!

Don't lose your wristband! You need it to get into the festival.
A "wristband" is a strip of material on your wrist 
used for identification at festivals.

glamping
Glamping - a blend of "glamorous" and "camping" - 
is a bit like traditional camping, but more luxurious.

a headliner
The organisers have just announced the headliners for next year's festival.

Camping is often included in the ticket price.
Glamping costs extra but is more comfortable.

"glamping" means "glamorous camping" and it involves comforts such as beds and electricity.

"My favourite band is headlining" means that the speaker's favourite band is the main act.

a VIP / a very important person
We're paying extra to get the VIP treatment: backstage passes, 
glamping and - best of all - hot showers!

a genre
Some festivals specialise in one musical genre, while others have a bit of 
everything: stadium rock, laid-back hip-hop, DJs, you name it.

How much would it cost to get the VIP treatment?
I like good music no matter what genre.
* "genre of music" is a style of music, e.g. rock or jazz.

sunscreen
Sunscreen protects your skin from the sun's rays. 
Some people call it suncream or suntan lotion.

wellies
Wellington boots, or wellies for short, are called galoshes in the USA. 
They are also known as rain boots and gum boots in some areas.

a food truck
The food at this festival is awesome! 
Have you tried the falafel truck near the acoustic stage?

I'm not sure what the weather will be like, 
so I'm packing some sunscreen 
and I'll wear my wellies to save space in my bag.

A "food truck" is a truck that prepares and sells food.

a headliner - famous act that performs last
wellies - waterproof footwear
a wristband - wearable pass for entering a festival

Take walking boots and wellies.
Rain flows from high ground to low ground, 
so I recommend camping on high ground if you can.

You'll be outside for most of the day, 
so make sure you pack the sunscreen!
the variety of performances and the atmosphere
* Glastonbury has an amazing energy and it's not just 
about music but also comedy, dance and theatre.

Catch your three favourite bands, then relax.
You need your wristband to get into the festival.

If you like the sound of camping but don't want 
to get your hands dirty, why not try glamping?

He likes the wide variety of things to eat.
A "food truck" is a truck that prepares and sells food.

Some travel agents sell VIP passes for Glastonbury, 
but they're incredibly expensive.

The main stage is cool but don't miss the smaller stages.
You get your wristband when you arrive at the festival.

I burn really easily so I'd better take some sunscreen.
There's rock, indie, hip-hop, techno... Basically every 
genre you can think of.
* "genre of music" is a style of music, e.g. rock or jazz.

I'll meet you at that vegan food truck in 20 minutes!
I think camping looks uncomfortable, but I'm willing to try glamping.
I don't need the VIP treatment. I would rather camp with everyone else.
Have you been to a festival before?
It's going to rain so we should definitely take our wellies.
If you leave the festival site for any reason, 
you'll need to show your wristband to get back in.
The main performer usually appears towards the end of the 
day and is known as the headliner.
Can you remember where we pitched our tent? Is this even the right camping area?
The more comfortable and luxurious version of camping is known as glamping.
The main performer usually appears towards the end of the day and is known as the headliner.

VOCABULARY
a wristband
camping
glamping
a headliner
a VIP / a very important person
a genre
sunscreen
wellies
a food truck

----------------
3. Intensifiers - 
Use words like "really" and "very" to describe experiences

Basic intensifiers

We use intensifiers - words like "very" and "really" 
- to strengthen adjectives ("friendly", "difficult", "great").
The people here are very friendly.
The test was so difficult.
We had a really great time at Glastonbury.

The president is a very important person.
"very" intensifies the meaning of the word it goes with.

She's such a good friend. She's so supportive.
We use "such" with a noun phrase (as in "such a good friend"), 
and we use "so" with an adjective (as in "so supportive").

The food at the festival was so tasty!
We use "so" with an adjective.

My hometown is really small.
"really" intensifies the meaning of the word it goes with.

Advanced intensifiers

These are some more advanced intensifiers. 
They indicate that something is done to a high degree or to the fullest degree.

High degree
extremely, incredibly, highly

Fullest degree
completely, absolutely, totally

absolutely
I am absolutely delighted to win this award, 
but I couldn't have done it without the help of my co-workers.

ompletely
The festival was completely different from what I expected. 
There was so much to see and do!

I had a great time in Seoul. The street food was absolutely amazing.
"absolutely" intensifies the meaning of "amazing".

Some events at the Edinburgh Festival are completely free.

Be careful when using "very"
We use "very" with adjectives like "big". 
We don't usually use "very" with stronger adjectives like "enormous" 
(which means "very big"). With strong adjectives like "enormous", 
we use intensifiers like "really", "absolutely", "completely" and so on.

very big, very small, very good, very bad 
absolutely enormous, absolutely tiny, really great, completely awful

The restaurant had a nice atmosphere, but the food was completely awful.
With strong adjectives like "awful", we use intensifiers like "really" or 
"completely", but not "very".

Have you ever been to Dubai? The shopping malls are absolutely enormous!

extremely
Although they didn't reach the final this time, 
I'm extremely proud of this group of players.

highly
Take these painkillers twice a day. 
They're highly effective, so you should feel better in a few days.

My daughter is extremely excited about going to Glastonbury.
We use "extremely" with a strong adjective like "excited".

He is very intelligent.
"highly" is a more formal synonym of "very".

incredibly
In many countries, weddings can be incredibly expensive.

totally
Don't worry if you feel stressed sometimes, that's totally normal.

Even today, The Beatles are still incredibly popular.
"incredibly" has a similar meaning to "very".

No worries, that's totally fine.
"totally" is used before the adjective "fine".

Using intensifiers with particular adjectives

Some intensifiers pair only with particular adjectives and they cannot be used interchangeably.

highly
skilled, unlikely, recommended, paid

totally, completely, absolutely 
new, different, dry, free, right 

extremely, incredibly
easy, expensive, busy, helpful, powerful

I wasn't sure what to do but I took your advice. It turns out you were absolutely right.
"absolutely right" is an example of words that pair up.

I'd heard this restaurant was hard to find, but your directions were incredibly easy to follow.

Going to that music festival was a completely new experience for me.

Of course, you are absolutely right.
This old Italian recipe is incredibly easy.
Rock and pop music are completely different.

The festival was totally awesome.

Experts think that an agreement between the two sides is highly... unlikely

I'm not sure if I can help you. I'm extremely busy at the moment.

Snow in summer is highly unlikely.
My boss is always extremely busy.
Dude, that movie was totally awesome!

When painting a wall, you should wait until the first coat is...
completely dry before adding the second coat.
Bringing your own food and drink is not absolutely necessary.
a highly successful writer and director.

Don't fold the laundry until it's completely dry.
All of her students became highly successful.
For some jobs, English skills are absolutely essential.

I'd heard this restaurant was hard to find, but your directions were incredibly easy to follow.
Thanks for your advice. You were absolutely right.

This weekend, a storm is highly likely.
Entry to some small festivals is completely free.
VIP passes can be incredibly expensive.
Yeah, we had a really great time. The headliners were absolutely amazing.
She is highly intelligent.
This new magazine doesn't cost anything - it's completely free!
Thank you very much, you've been extremely helpful.
As part of his MBA, he's reading a book about the habits of highly successful people.
Regular exercise and a balanced diet are absolutely essential for a healthy life.
Please tell me the truth. I want you to be totally honest with me.
These cameras may be small and light but they are incredibly powerful.

VOCABULARY
absolutely

completely

extremely

highly

incredibly

totally

-----------------
4. Reading about the Fringe Festival - Read about a culture festival in Scotland

You are going to read a guide for attending a major festival in Scotland. 
Before you start, have a look at the words and phrases below that you will 
find in the text.

the arts (music, theatre, dance, etc.)
a big name (a famous person)
a DJ set (a group of songs played by a DJ)
energetic (full of energy)
to miss out (to not join an activity)
to be packed with (to be full of)
spectacles (shows or performances)
to take place (to happen)
unpredictable (surprising or hard to predict)
a venue (an event location)

A Traveller’s Guide to the Edinburgh Fringe Festival
Would you like to go to the Edinburgh Fringe? 
This blog post will tell you everything you need to know 
about this incredibly fun and popular arts festival!

What is the Edinburgh Fringe Festival?
The Edinburgh Fringe is the world’s biggest arts festival. 
It takes place in the capital of Scotland every August. 
It is 3 weeks long, and is utterly packed with events. 
Last year the festival was bigger than ever, with 53,000 performances! 
There are 300 venues across the city, but because Edinburgh is quite small, 
it’s easy to find your way around!

What types of performers will I see?
The festival is completely open, which means that absolutely anyone can perform. 
If you attend, you’ll see a variety of different spectacles, 
from frightfully funny comedy shows to extremely energetic DJ sets and 
interesting plays. Before you go you should decide which events you want to 
see, as there is a lot to discover.

What can I eat at the festival?
Another reason to attend the Edinburgh Fringe festival is the food! 
There are plenty of meal options in the street markets, 
and don’t forget to visit the food trucks! 
You can explore the streets of Edinburgh, and find absolutely any dish you want.

What's the weather like?
Edinburgh is beautiful but the Scottish weather is very unpredictable. 
You will spend a lot of time outside, so if I were you,
I’d bring sun cream and also wellies - there could be a lot of rain!

How much does it cost?
You can book your tickets online. 
Some events are totally free, but most tickets cost £10 - 30. 
The headliners and big names might even cost more. 
Accommodation can be incredibly expensive, so you should book in advance.

If you don’t already have your tickets for this year’s Edinburgh Fringe, 
what are you waiting for? 
It’s going to be even bigger and better than last year, and trust me, you 
don’t want to miss out!

Many texts use paragraphs with headers to organise information into small chunks. 
When reading a longer text in a foreign language it is often helpful to read the headings first, 
especially when you know what information you're looking for. 
Try using this strategy for the next few questions.

If you attend the Fringe Festival, you’ll see a variety of different spectacles.
hard to predict

 frightfully funny 
It is an intensifier phrase meaning “very funny”. 
It is used in this text because the two “f” sounds within the word sound good. 
Intensifiers in English can emphasise without changing meaning.

utterly packed... ...means very full of stuff.
totally free... ...means it costs nothing at all.
quite small... ...means not very big.

The festival is completely open, which means that absolutely anyone can perform.

------------------
5. Developing fluency - Use the second conditional

If I were you, I'd wear a suit.
"if I were" sounds more hypothetical than "if I was" and is more common.

We would invite plus ones if the venue were bigger.
If I had time, I would come to the party this weekend.
I would be at the wedding if I could.
Joe would know what time the wedding starts, if he looked at the invitation.
If I had another party, I wouldn't choose this caterer again.
He would visit his parents more often.

------------

6. Review - A quick review of recent lessons

It's review time!

We’re going to take another look at the vocabulary and 
grammar that we have just covered in the last few lessons.

Let’s start by concentrating on the dialogue we’ve just 
heard. Go back and have another listen if you need to!

Elliott
Hey Zoe! It was nice to see you at Elisa's housewarming last week. 
You said you were going to the Isle of Wight Festival, didn't you? 
'm going, but I haven't got my tickets yet.

Zoe
Hi Elliott - yes I am! I bought my tickets yesterday. 
If I were you, I'd get your tickets soon - if you don't order them this week, 
they'll get more expensive.

Elliott
I know... I need to get together with my friends to plan the trip.

Zoe
I'm sure it will be fine! Have you seen pictures of the venue yet? 
It looks totally awesome!

Elliott
Yeah! It's absolutely enormous isn't it? Do you know who the headliners are?

Zoe
The headliners are being announced tomorrow. 
I can't wait - I want to pack my bag now!

Elliott
Me too! Is there a dress code for this type of event? 
I've never been to a festival before...

Zoe
Nope. People usually wear whatever they want. 
But don't forget your wellies - last year it rained all weekend and 
there was a lot of mud!

Elliott
Thanks a lot Zoe, I'll text you when I finally get my wristband. 
I'll see you at Liam's dinner party tomorrow night!

Zoe
Yes, see you there!

We’re going to take another look at the vocabulary and grammar 
that we have just covered in the last few lessons.

Let’s start by concentrating on the dialogue we’ve just heard. 
Go back and have another listen if you need to!

Zoe has bought her tickets, but Elliott has not.

If I were you I'd get your tickets soon.
If you don't order them this week they'll get more expensive.

If I were you, I'd get your tickets soon.
hypothetical situation and consequence (giving advice)

If you don't order them this week, they'll get more expensive.
possible situation and consequence

If I were you, I'd bring your wellies!
I'll text you when I get my wristband.
The venue's absolutely enormous, isn't it?
These grapes are delicious, aren't they?

I'd take the train if I had enough money.
I want to host|to have|to throw a party for my birthday.

You don't like salmon, do you ?
If it rains, we'll get wet.
You haven't been to France, have you?
The weather at the festival was incredibly awful!
If I knew where the library was, I'd tell you!
When Hector arrives, we'll jump out and say "surprise"!
The venue was absolutely enormous !
Sarah went shopping, didn't she?
Please tell me the truth. I want you to be totally honest with me.
As part of his MBA, he's reading a book about the habits of highly successful people.
These cameras may be small and light but they are incredibly powerful.
Regular exercise and a balanced diet are absolutely essential for a healthy life.
Would you buy this car if it were cheaper?
The main performer usually appears towards the end of the day and is known as the headliner.

I don't need the VIP treatment. I would rather camp with everyone else.

The more comfortable and luxurious version of camping is known as glamping.
Have you been to a festival before?
If I had more time, I wouldn't feel so overwhelmed.
If I had another party, I wouldn't choose this caterer again.

I'm not sure what the weather will be like, so I'm packing some sunscreen 
and I'll wear my wellies to save space in my bag.

Even today, The Beatles are still incredibly popular.

Bringing your own food and drink is not absolutely necessary.




































