Cities
1. Future continuous - Forming the future continuous tense

I'm working at the moment.
I'll be relaxing by the pool this time tomorrow.
* The sentence talks about the future.

We won't be using the meeting room then.

We use the Future Continuous tense to talk about actions that will (or won't) 
be happening at a specific time in the future. 
We often use time expressions in the future:

I'll be relaxing by the pool this time next week. 
We won't be using the meeting room at 4 o'clock tomorrow.
At 5 o'clock I'll be talking to the new manager.
We will leave the house at 7 o'clock.

We'll be driving all through the night.
* The sentence talks about an action that will be in progress at a time in the future.

The Future Continuous tense is used to talk about actions in progress 
at a point in the future:

At 5 o'clock I'll be talking to the new manager.

The Future Continuous tense is also used to talk about future arrangements 
and plans that will be happening at a time in the future:
We'll be driving all through the night.

Dave will be arriving soon.
We'll be getting on the train at 7 o'clock tomorrow.
My parents will be staying with us next weekend.

To make the Future Continuous tense we use will + be + -ing form of the verb. 
'Will' is often contracted when used with pronouns:
I'll be working late tonight. He'll be having a party on the 23rd.
I won't be sleeping then.
What will you be working on tomorrow morning?
We won't be using the meeting room until 3 o'clock.

To make negative sentences in the Future Continuous Tense we use will + not, 
this is usually contracted to won't.
I won't be using the computer tonight.

To make questions we put the subject between 'will' and 'be'.
Will you be using the computer tonight?

This time next week I'll be sitting on a beach in Spain.
At 4 o'clock we'll be having an important meeting in room 8.
I don't think we'll be going on holiday this year
She won't be driving when she's on holiday.
Will you be working from home tomorrow?
We'll be staying|We will be staying in a hotel tomorrow night.
I won't be sleeping|I will not be sleeping; come over whenever you want.
What will you be doing at midnight?
Where will you be eating? I'll come and find you.

They will be arriving|They'll be arriving soon. Are we ready?



-------------------------
2. Describing architecture - Learn vocabulary to describe cities

work remotely from a new place
He works remotely from his flat in his hometown. 
He wants to combine travel and work.

a neighbourhood
Foreigners are safest in Rio when they stay in the right neighbourhoods.

green spaces
Santa Teresa is a perfect place to surround yourself with green spaces.

My grandma has lived and worked in this neighbourhood her whole life.
72% of Oslo is covered with trees; there are parks and gardens everywhere.

ancient ruins
In Tulum, you can spend time exploring the ancient ruins from Mayan times.

residential areas
The Expo neighbourhood in Lisbon is known for its residential areas.

The Parthenon is the most iconic ancient ruin in Athens

There are no businesses, factories, or offices in Alta Vista, just houses.
* Alta Vista is a residential area.

well-preserved buildings
Budapest is a beautiful city with well-preserved buildings.

contemporary architecture
Gaudí gave Barcelona an international reputation but its contemporary 
architecture is just as exciting.

The architecture of the twenty-first century is called contemporary architecture.

Nobody takes care of the old buildings and they are in a bad condition.

ancient, contemporary
"Ancient" and "contemporary" describe the age and "well-preserved", 
the condition.

a part of neighbourhood where people live. - residential area

Best place to work from remotely
I’m fond of old cities with history. I love going for a walk in the city 
centre and learning about the main events in the place. To fully enjoy it, 
it’s important that the buildings are well preserved, otherwise it is just not 
a pleasant city to live.
But your daily life really happens in the residential area, so first, it needs 
to be well connected by public transport to the centre as well as other 
neighbourhoods. And second, parks and green spaces cannot be further than a 
five-minute walk from my place.

He would like to live in a city with a well-preserved historic centre, 
good public transport and green spaces nearby.

Cities with well-preserved buildings are pleasant to live in.
Good-quality public transport should be available in your residential area.

Tulum or Budapest?
I’m not sure. It’s either Tulum in Mexico or Budapest in Hungary. Tulum is 
this exciting combination of ancient Mayan ruins and picturesque natural 
places. But then, Budapest has so much to see, too. There is some amazing 
contemporary architecture next to its well-preserved historic buildings. From 
what I’ve read, all the neighbourhoods are pretty safe, not too crowded and, 
let’s face it, it’s cheaper than Tulum.

What does he like about Budapest?
the architecture

In Tulum, you can find green spaces and ancient ruins.
There is some amazing contemporary architecture next to 
its well-preserved historic buildings.
From what I’ve read, all the neighbourhoods|neighborhoods are pretty safe.

the natural spaces
He needs to be near green spaces and nature to be happy.

VOCABULARY

a neighbourhood

green spaces

ancient ruins

residential areas

well-preserved buildings

contemporary architecture

-----------------------
3. Imagining London - Watch an artist animate a city

a busy city
New Delhi is a very busy city.
Robert lives in a quiet place with few cars and not many people.

the sights
We didn't have time to see all the sights in Rome.

Here's a map with all the important sights in Warsaw.

Imagining London
Narrator: London is a huge busy city. Every day, millions of people move along 
its streets. Passing famous buildings like the Shard. And the Gherkin.
Everyone sees something slightly different in London’s buildings, its people 
and neighbourhoods. But how many people see and imagine London like this?
Jon: Hello, my name is Jon. I am from the Basque country and I am an animation 
filmmaker.
Narrator: As an animator Jon is able to share what he imagines with all of us. 
His work brings his three great interests together.
Jon: I love architecture, I love drawing, and I love cinema.
Narrator: And he is making an animated film about London called What do 
Buildings Think. Jon’s animation brings London’s buildings to life. Buildings 
like Battersea Power Station. He even imagines what buildings would say to 
each other if they could speak.
Jon: I thought that they were having an argument and that’s why you can see 
blah blah and the tallest one says sshhh.
Narrator: Most visitors to London visit historic sites like Tower Bridge.
But do they see it like Jon? Jon’s work shows us that a city like London can 
be more than skyscrapers and traffic, it can be a place of ideas as well.

Jon imagines what buildings could say and think.
Jon’s animation brings London’s buildings to life. 
He imagines what buildings would say if they could speak.
Every day, millions of people move along its streets.

The Shard and the Gherkin are examples of famous buildings – sights.

His work brings his three great interests together: architecture, drawing and cinema.

a building
My office is in the tallest building in town.

My office is in the tallest building in town.
Notice how "u" in "building" is not pronounced.

Everyone sees something slightly different in London’s buildings, 
its people and neighbourhoods.

It's an example of a building Jon animated.
Jon’s animation brings London’s buildings (like Battersea Power Station) to life.

Jon’s animation brings London’s buildings to life.

The buildings were having an argument and that’s why you can see blah blah 
and the tallest one says sshhh.
Jon's creative idea was to imagine buildings arguing.

historic sites
Most of the historic sites can be found in the city centre.

a skyscraper
New York is famous for its skyscrapers.

a skyscraper - a very tall building
a historic site - a place where something important happened

Jon’s work shows us that a city like London can be more than skyscrapers and traffic.

"Historic sites" are part of the city's ____.sights
"The sights" mean interesting places. 
"Historic sites" are interesting because something important happened there.

either "sights" or "sites"
"Sights" and "sites" have the same pronunciation – /saɪts/.

Most visitors to London visit historic sites like Tower Bridge.

VOCABULARY

a busy city

the sights

a building

historic sites

a skyscraper


----------------------
4. Introduction to the passive - Learn when to use it

Walter Chrysler built the Chrysler Building in the 1930s.
The first skyscraper in the world was built in Chicago.

When do we use the passive voice?
The passive voice is common in many languages and we use it when we are 
interested in the person or thing that an action happened to. Not, 
who did the action.
For example, in the sentence "My grandfather sold this house in 1995," the 
important information is "who sold the house", but in the passive sentence 
"The house was sold in 1995," the important information is "what happened to 
the house".

* We use the passive voice when we are interested in the person or 
thing that the action happened to.

The Eiffel Tower was designed in 1884. - The focus is on what happened to the tower.
Gustave Eiffel designed the Eiffel Tower in 1884. - The focus is on who designed it.

We use the passive voice ("was designed") to show that we're interested 
in the action, not who did the action.

Who did the action?
Use "by" if you want to mention the person who did the action.
The museum was designed by a German architect.
* Use "by" to mention the person who did the action.

The Statue of Liberty was designed by French sculptor Frédéric Bartholdi.

The architect employed people to complete the project.
Thousands of builders were employed by the architect to complete the project. 
The action was done by the architect.

Who does the action happen to?
Start your passive sentence with "the thing/ the person" 
that the action happens to.
My bike has been stolen.

Passports are checked at the border by an official.
the thing the action happens to.  - Passports

The city centre is being reconstructed.

These beaches were never visited.
The action happened to "these beaches" so it goes at the beginning of the sentence.

------------------
5. The passive - Learn how to use it

How do the verbs change in the passive voice?
1. Each grammar tense has its own form.
2. You always need some form of the verb "to be" and "past participle".

There are many different forms of passive voice.

Passive voice forms

Each grammar tense has its own passive form.

They make these shoes in Spain.
These shoes are made in Spain.

They are making these shoes in Spain.
These shoes are being made in Spain.

They made these shoes in Spain.
These shoes were made in Spain.

They were making these shoes in Spain.
These shoes were being made in Spain.

They have made these shoes in Spain. 
These shoes have been made in Spain. 

Japan has been visited by many tourists this year.

On average, the Taj Mahal is seen by 22,000 visitors a day.
The past participle form of "see" needed in this passive sentence is "seen". 
"Saw" is past simple.

What's the past participle of the verb "do"? - done

Mexico City was once the capital of the Aztec Empire. 
Then, it was called Tenochtitlan.
This sentence is in the past simple. We need "was/were" + past participle.

Eau de Cologne was invented and made in Cologne, Germany.
The past participle of "make" is "made".

In the eighth century, Baghdad was a centre of art, learning and culture. 
Those years are known as the Islamic Golden Age.
It's present simple, so we need "is / are" + past participle.

In the nineteenth century, the capital of Japan was moved from Kyoto to Tokyo.
We need the past simple form of "to be". It's a past action 
that happened a long time ago.

Fifty cats are officially employed at St. Petersburg’s Hermitage Museum. 
They keep the museum free of mice.
It's present simple, so we need "is/are" + past participle.

Madrid’s Sobrino de Botin is the world’s oldest restaurant. 
Customers have been served in this restaurant since 1725.
This restaurant has served customers since 1725. 
→ Customers have been served in this restaurant since 1725.

The sidewalks in Helsinki are heated by an underground snowmelt system.
It's present simple, so we need "is / are" + past participle.

Venice is being slowly abandoned by local residents.
It's present continuous, so we need "is / are being" + past participle.

In New York, English is spoken in only four out of every ten households. 
It is the most diverse city on Earth.
We need the passive voice; the focus is on what happens to English → "it is spoken".

---------------------
6. - The passive with modal verbs - Learn to use the passive with modal verbs

Your city should be looked at through the eyes of a senior citizen more often.
This statement means that we should look at our cities from the perspective 
of a senior citizen.
* The important information is that "your city should be looked at", 
not who does the action.

In a passive sentence with a modal verb (eg. "should"), we need "be" + "past participle".

Passive voice with modals

Passive sentences with modals in the present need "be" + past participle.
Modal verbs: "will", "would", "can", "could", "might", "may", "should", "must".

Active                          Passive
We can't ask questions.         Questions can't be asked.
We must do the work.            The work must be done.
They will cancel the flight.    The flight will be cancelled.

Our cities must be made more friendly for senior citizens.
In the passive voice with "must", we need "be" + past participle "made".

Senior-friendly cities
1. ________
If older people don’t drive, they can’t participate in community life 
and will become lonely. So, they will be isolated in their homes 
if the city doesn’t offer affordable public transport.

2. ________
Older people must also be given a good reason to go out. 
They should be offered interesting cultural activities and entertainment, 
as well as volunteering opportunities.

3. ________
In a citizen-friendly neighbourhood, residential care services such as 
nursing homes should be located within residential areas. 
This way, older citizens could be cared for close to home.

Paragraph 1 - Transportation
Paragraph 2 - Social participation
Paragraph 3 - Health care

Seniors will be isolated in their homes if the city doesn’t offer 
affordable public transport.
Older people must also be given a good reason to go out.
The elderly should be offered interesting cultural activities.

The government should locate nursing homes within residential areas.
Nursing homes should be located within residential areas.

This way, older citizens could be cared for close to home.
Quincy is talking about housing.
Their homes should be close to social and community services. 
They should also be safe and have lifts, if necessary.
If the elderly can't move safely around their houses, the space should be adapted.

The government should make lifts affordable for older citizens.
Lifts should be made affordable for older residents.

Older residents will live comfortably and safely if their homes are close to 
community and social services. If the elderly can't move safely around their 
houses, the space should be adapted. Mobility modifications, such as lifts, 
should be made affordable for older residents.

-------------------------
7. Pronouncing past participles - Practise irregular past participles

driven
This car hasn't been driven for years.

written
Many books have been written about health and fitness.
The address is written on the envelope.

/ai/ → /ɪ/
Notice how the vowel sound /ai/ in the verbs "to write" and "to drive" changes 
to the shorter vowel sound /ɪ/ in the past participle.

write → written
drive → driven

What is written here?

heard
The music can still be heard.

hurt
I was hurt by your words.

No animals will be hurt.

"Hurt" or "heard"?

Listen and notice the difference.
 "t" at the end
No animals will be hurt.

 "d" at the end
No animals will be heard.

She can't be heard.
She can't be heard = Nobody can hear her.

brought
The suitcases will be brought to your room.

bought
The company has just been bought by its competitors.

Brought or bought?
The difference in these two participles is the "r" after "b".
Children can't be brought to the party.
Balloons should be bought for the party.

"These shoes can't be bought in my favourite shop." 
– She can't buy them in her favourite shop.

thought
Shanghai is thought to have a population of 20 million.

taught
English is taught at schools all over the world.

Arabic is thought to be a difficult language.

Thought or taught?
The difference between these two participles is the sound at the beginning – 
"th" in "thought" and "t" in "teach".

French is thought to sound romantic.
French was never taught in my school.

Creativity can't be taught.

VOCABULARY

driven

written

heard

hurt

brought

bought

thought

taught

------------------
8. All forms of passive - Practise passive forms in context

Travel posters are collected around the world.
People around the world collect travel posters.

Travel posters were collected around the world.
People around the world collected travel posters.

Travel posters should be collected around the world.
People around the world should collect travel posters.

Posters are like visual graphic icons of the times in which they were created.

Travel posters were used by hotels, airlines and tourism companies 
o advertise travel destinations.
We use "by" to mention who did the action.

When travelling by railroads and ocean liners was becoming popular, 
lithographic printing was developed.

Travel posters were put up on kiosks and in train stations in Europe and America.

After World War II came the era of intercontinental air travel. This was a 
boom time for travel posters, and they could be found everywhere.
"could" in passive = "could" + "be" + "past participle"

Many people consider travel posters works of art.
Travel posters are considered works of art by many people.

Nowadays, travelling is easier and cheaper; and sadly, 
the romanticism of travel has been lost.

Travel poster collector
I’m a travel poster collector. And I have over 100 travel posters. 
All of them were designed between 1925 and 1935, so yes they could be called 
vintage. Some people love them because they are beautiful and show charming 
scenes. For me, it's a bit different. They help me remember places that have 
been important in my life.

For example, I was offered a job in Japan when I was only 24. It started my 
interest in this country and its culture. Australia is the country where my 
wife was born and we travel there regularly to visit her family. Austria is 
where I was taught to ski and to this day I’m very fond of the sport. I love 
Austria even though my wallet and my skis were stolen there more than once.

London is the city where I saw my favourite music band play live for the first 
time. In fact, they’re coming to London again next month but all the tickets 
have been sold out already.

Washington is special to me for two reasons. It’s my hometown and I spent my 
childhood there. Plus, there’s a documentary that is being made about the city 
and I have been interviewed for it.

Why does Jeff collect travel posters?
They remind him of important moments.

In which country did he have an unpleasant experience?
Austria
His wallet and skis were stolen there.

I have been interviewed.
They have interviewed me.

They are interviewing me.
I'm being interviewed.

Jeff's posters were designed between 1925 and 1935 and they can be called vintage.
Posters are plural -> were designed; passive with modals require the verb "be".

I was offered a job in Japan.
Australia is the country where my wife was born.

They taught me to ski in Austria.
I was taught to ski in Austria.

I love Austria even though my wallet and my skis were stolen there more than once.

They have already sold out all the concert tickets.
All the concert tickets have been sold out already.
It’s the present perfect, so we need “have / has been” + past participle.

There’s a documentary that ___ _____ made about Washington right now.is being
"Right now" suggests that we need the passive form for present continuous.

-----------------
9. Compound nouns - Explore compound nouns in city vocabulary

city centre
train station
post office
These nouns are made up of two words.

I need to get off at the next bus stop.
bus stop = a stop for buses, "bus" describes "stop"

Compound nouns
Compound nouns are typically made with two words. 
The first word describes the second word.

an art gallery
a gallery where you can see art

a train station
a station for trains

a motorway
a way for vehicles with a motor

car park
The first word describes the second word – a park for cars.

The traffic lights were flashing red, telling me to stop.

Andrea has just visited an art gallery.
Andrea says that there were many paintings by different artists.

the city's nightlife
Joel says that the city comes alive after 7pm and that there are many bars, 
clubs and restaurants.

Phil is in a takeaway restaurant.
Phil is ordering small fries, two chicken tacos, some onion rings and a large Coke.

The conversation is happening on a motorway.
A police officer has stopped a car for driving too fast.

a car park
Jazmine has been driving around the area but there's nowhere to park.

Sam suggests spending the day in a shopping centre.
Sam says that you can buy clothes there, have lunch in one of the restaurants 
upstairs and see a movie.

Separately or together?
Compound nouns are written either separately or together.

written separately
art gallery, city centre, train station, takeaway restaurant

written together
nightlife, motorway, playground, motorcycle

Patrick and his two-year-old son are in the playground.
Patrick talks about children playing and having lots of fun.

------------------
10.  Developing fluency - Research and describe a city

his city
Krish talks about Mumbai, a city in India where he lives.

Mumbai was founded in the sixteenth century.
It's the passive voice in the past simple "was" + "founded" (past participle of "found").

Mumbai is a mix of traditional and contemporary architecture.

Mumbai is famous for its nightlife and iconic sights.
"Nightlife" is a compound noun and the two words – "night" and "life" 
– are written together.

Mumbai was founded in (...). Mumbai was built in (...).
Mumbai is famous for (...). People know Mumbai for (...).

She likes Tokyo.
Alex thinks the skyscrapers are magnificent, and she likes her neighbourhood.

I live in Tokyo and the skyscrapers are magnificent.
There's a lot of traffic in Tokyo.
Tokyo's an extremely busy city and travelling by train is very convenient.

My area is also known for its huge outdoor playground. Kids have so much fun there.
"Playground" is a compound noun and the two words – "play" and "ground"
 – are written together.

There are many restaurants and shopping centres in my neighbourhood.

--------------------------



































































































