Relationships

1. Remembering childhood- Learn ways to talk about past habits

Steven talks about past events.
His grandfather was born in 1927 and he used to walk five miles to school every day.

"Used to walk" indicated that it happened regularly.

Learn "used to+infinitive" to talk about situations that continued 
for some time but don't happen anymore.
My grandfather used to live in a rural area.
"Used to" already contains information about the past and is followed by an infinitive.

My grandfather didn't use to go to school in spring and autumn 
when there was a lot to do on the farm.
The negative form of "used to" is "didn't use to" just like any other verb in the past simple.

Did he use to work on the farm?
We need "did you use to" to ask a question about a past habit.

At school, Steven's grandmother regularly learned domestic skills.
Steven's grandmother would learn how to make clothing, cook and bake.

When my grandmother was at school, she would learn domestic skills.
'Would" can be used to talk about repeated actions in the past.

When my grandmother was young, she would knit winter clothing for the whole family.
It's a sentence about a past habit that no longer exists.

"Would" or "used to"?
"Used to" describes actions and situations/states that continued 
for some time but don't happen anymore.

"Would" is only used with actions that continued 
for some time but don't happen anymore.

If you aren't sure which one to use, "used to" will always work.

Action                                  Situation/state
We didn't use to watch TV at all. ✅    As a child, she used to love singing. ✅
Back at school, we would play outdoors all the time.✅  As a child, she would live in Barcelona.❌

She used to have short hair.
"Having short hair" is a situation, not an action. 
"Would" cannot be used here.

As children, we would ______ bikes.ride, paint, steal
"To ride", "to paint" and "to steal" are action verbs. 
They can be used with "would" to refer to a past habit.

Women of my grandmother's generation used to have domestic skills 
such as cooking and making clothing.
In this sentence, "have" is a state verb describing a situation 
and can only go with "used to".

would - to cook, to bake, to drive
used to - to know, to prefer, to study
"Used to" can be followed by any verb but "would" can only be followed by action verbs.

Three differences between childhood now and 100 years ago
1. ________
In the early twentieth century in the US, children were legally allowed to work. 
Countryside children would work on their family's farms 
while many children in cities and towns used to sell newspapers and 
food or work in mines or factories. 
They either built machines or worked with them. 
Today, children play with technology instead.

2. ________
Children’s photographs were nothing like what we see today. 
Portraits 100 years ago were unique. 
Children didn’t use to smile and they looked serious and unhappy. 
One possible explanation is that older pictures used to be blurry 
if people didn’t sit or stand still.

3. ________
Today, the school year lasts about nine months. 
In the late 1800s in the US, farm kids would go to school for only five, 
because parents needed children to help on the farm in spring and autumn. 
Even when the school year got longer and educating 
children became obligatory, farm kids used to be absent.

Paragraph 1 - Machines
Paragraph 2 - Photos
Paragraph 3 - School year

Children would work on their family's farms. = They often worked on their family's farms.

Older pictures used to be blurry if people didn’t sit or stand still.
"Would" is incorrect because "to be blurry" is a state.

Children didn’t use to smile and they looked serious and unhappy.
The negative form of the structure "used to" is "didn't use to" 
just like any verb in past simple.

My grandfather used to live on the farm, so he often missed school.
"Would" is incorrect because "live" is a state verb and 
describes a situation, not an action.

Many children in cities and towns used to|would|both sell newspapers and food.
would
"Sell" is an action verb and both "would" and "used to" are correct.

------------------
2. Talking about family - Learn vocabulary for talking about family members

a blended family
As people get divorced and remarry, blended families are becoming more common.

an extended family
He grew up surrounded by a large extended family.

Lola grew up in a blended family.

a stepfather
My mother's new husband is my stepfather.

He spends two weeks a month with his dad and 
the remaining weeks he lives with his mum and Nathan, her new husband.
Nathan is Kevin's stepfather.

Stepfamily 👨‍👧‍👧👩‍👧‍👦
The prefix "step-" means that someone is not your biological family 
but is related to you by a marriage of a parent.

a stepmother
your father's/mother's new wife

a stepsister
your stepmother's or stepfather's daughter

a stepbrother 
your stepmother's or stepfather's son 

My mom remarried. Her new husband's son, my stepbrother, Tim is my age.

an extended family - mother, grandfather, cousins, aunts
a blended family - stepmother, stepsister, stepfather

a single-parent household
Over 25% of American households are single-parent households.

Nowadays, most households have more than one TV.

How do you call a house with just one parent?
a single-parent household

twins
Twins are believed to have a special bond.

to be adopted
Each year, approximately 140,000 children are adopted by American parents.

I was adopted at birth and I never met my biological parents.

They are twins. They were born on the same day from the same mother.
Lola grew up in a blended family.

Family drama
I just love soap operas and how they deal with family drama, 
personal relationships, and emotional conflicts. 
And no soap opera – and I've watched loads of them – 
has impressed me more than "Household".
It tells the story of a blended family. 
The father, Carlos, has two teenage sons from his previous marriage – 
twins Jose and Pedro. And the mother, Maria, has a teenage daughter, Paula, 
also from a previous marriage. Jose and Pedro don't get along with their 
stepmother, they treat her like rubbish and make her life impossible. 
But nobody seems to notice and Maria doesn't complain about it.

The title of the soap opera is "Household".
Jose and Pedro are twins and Maria is their stepmother.
"Household" is about a blended family from Venezuela.

Mysterious disappearance
One day, Maria disappears under mysterious circumstances and the house becomes 
a single-parent household. Carlos finds it difficult to raise his two sons and 
his stepdaughter on his own. That's why he calls his mother and two aunts and 
asks them to move in with him. The concept of an extended family living 
together is not something that Paula enjoys. She feels that she no longer has 
her own space and she misses her mother terribly.

Carlos needs help with the kids.

Shocking discovery
As time passes by, Paula becomes very close with her stepbrother, Jose. 
He's the only person who seems to understand her. 
Everything changes when Paula discovers that Pedro, Jose's twin brother, 
had something to do with her mother's disappearance.

In the meantime, Carlos finds out that he was adopted and that his mother, 
who is now living with him and helping him out, is not his biological mother.

Pedro was involved in her mother's disappearance.

VOCABULARY

a blended family

an extended family

a stepfather

a single-parent household

twins

to be adopted

-----------------------
3. Talking about romantic relationships - Learn vocabulary to talk about romantic relationships

to have a crush on
I've had a crush on my neighbour since the first time we met.

Jill has romantic feelings for Eric.
Jill says she's had a crush on Eric since high school.

to go on a date
They decided to go on a date to an Italian restaurant.

Keith and Rebecca went on a date to a small coffee shop.
Keith and Rebecca went on a date 
= an informal meeting between people who like each other romantically.

to ask somebody out
He asked Bert out the moment he saw him.

Jimmy wants to start a romantic relationship with Beth.
Jimmy says he wants to "ask her out". He is romantically interested in Beth.

to fall in love with
She fell in love with him when she realised how caring he was.
The expression is "to fall in love", and the past of "fall" is "fell".

to have a crush on somebody - initial casual feeling
to fall in love with somebody - deep emotional connection

to get engaged to
I got engaged to Victor and I want to spend the rest of my life with him.

After dating for several years, they finally decided to get engaged.
to get engaged = formally agree to marry

to be compatible with
We discovered we weren't compatible and decided to separate.

People in happy relationships are similar in many aspects.
to be compatible = to have similar interests, values, etc.

Focus on prepositions
All of the expressions in this lesson come with prepositions.

Optional preposition to talk about people
I have a crush (on Tom).
I'm falling in love (with Kate).
I got engaged (to Pat).
I'm totally compatible (with Jake).
Obligatory part of the expression
We went on a date last night.
I'm going to ask her out.

Bob and I got engaged. I got engaged to Bob.
Liz and I are compatible. I'm compatible with Liz.
Notice how the prepositions are optional with "get engaged" and "be compatible".

I'm falling in love with Kate.
You can also omit "with Kate" if you don't want to mention 
the person you have feelings for.

I have a crush on Tom.
You can also omit "on Tom" if you don't want to mention the person 
you have feelings for.

My dad had a crush on my mum since they first met at the airport. 
Even though they lived in different countries, my dad decided to ask her out. 
And they went on their first date to an airport cafe. 
Not very romantic, but they quickly knew there was a special connection between them. 
They had so much in common that only after two months of dating they got engaged. 
My dad left his job and home country and moved in with my mum.

There was a special connection between them and they had a lot in common.
Martin's parents were compatible.

My dad had a crush on my mum since they first met at the airport.
to have a crush on somebody = to like somebody romantically

Even though my parents lived in different countries, my dad decided to ask my mother out.
to ask somebody out = to invite somebody to spend time with them 
because you like them romantically

They went on their first date.
After two months, they got engaged.

Martin's father fell in love with his mother very quickly.
Martin's parents had a special connection and got engaged very quickly. 
It was more than just a crush.

He was too nervous to ask her out, so they never went on a date.

I fell in love with you the moment I saw you.
There are two prepositions in the expression – fall in love with somebody.

I can't believe you got engaged ___ your dentist. to
As a teenager, she had a huge crash ____ Brad Pitt. on

I understand you have a crush on Sara but I don't think you're compatible with her.

VOCABULARY

to have a crush on

to go on a date

to ask somebody out

to fall in love with

to get engaged to

to be compatible with

---------------------
4. The past perfect - Learn how to use the past perfect

We had been flatmates for a year before we became a couple.
Action 1 – We had been flatmates. Action 2 – We became a couple.
One event happened before the other event.

When do we use the past perfect?
When there are two events in the past, we use the past perfect 
(e.g. had gone, had worked) to talk about the event that happened first.

We often use "before", "after", and "already" to show which event happened first.

Event that happened first - She had gone on many dates before (...)
Event that happened next - (...) she met her future husband.

She had had a crush on him for years. - first event
They were officially introduced. - second event

We had already bought a flat before we decided to get married.
"Already" and the past perfect in "we had already bought a flat" show 
that they bought the flat first.

We had already gone on five dates (...) - first event
(...) before I learnt what his job was. - second event

"Already" and the past perfect in "we had already gone on five dates" 
show that first they went on five dates.

How do we form the past perfect?
The past perfect = had (not) + past participle (e.g, eaten, gone, driven, moved)
I had already eaten dinner before my boyfriend phoned.
I had already gone to bed when my girlfriend came back from work.

They had already known they were not compatible before they moved in together.

She had already had a crush on him when they got officially introduced.
We'd been together for 10 years when we realised we were not fully compatible.
Had is often abbreviated to "'d" in everyday English.

Lucy and I went to the same school and took the same school bus every morning. 
Actually, I had been in love with her for two years 
before I sat next to her on that bus and spoke to her.

How did you meet Lucy?
I had been in love with her for two years 
before I sat next to her on that bus and spoke to her.

She helped him on his first day of work.
Robert says he couldn't start the printer and Lina came and just plugged it in.

After she had saved my first day at work, 
I couldn’t stop thinking about the smile and asked her out.

Marta and Howard were friends before they became a couple.
They had been friends for years 
before they even realised they had feelings for each other.

We had been|'d been friends for years before we even realised we had feelings for each other.
We had already gone to the same parties but then something changed.
We had hung out|'d hung out with our mutual friends before we started dating.

-------------------
5. Grammar in a love story - Notice grammar structures in a story

The summary of "Five days to fall in love"
After Salim’s relationship had ended, he decided to be a better boyfriend. 
However, he had no girlfriend to be a better boyfriend to. 
He set himself a rather impossible challenge - finding a girlfriend and 
making her fall in love with him in only five days.

start a new relationship
He wants to find a new girlfriend and be a great boyfriend to her.

After Salim’s relationship had ended, he decided to be a better boyfriend.
However, he had no girlfriend to be a better boyfriend to.
He wants to find a girlfriend and make her fall in love with him.

Part 1
I’ve been single for exactly 360 days. According to my conservative mother, 
it’s too long. “When I was your age, I'd already had you, and you'd already 
grown facial hair,” she gently reminded me. According to my therapist, time is 
relative, and we don’t need anybody to make us happy. It’d be easier to 
believe her if she didn’t have pictures of her happy kids and perfect husband 
everywhere.

Who thinks it's okay to be single for a long time?
Salim's therapist
Salim's therapist thinks time is relative and we don't need anybody to make us happy.

I’ve been single for exactly 360 days.
It's an event that started in the past and still continues = the present perfect.

“When I was your age, I'd already had you, and you'd already grown facial hair.”
She's not happy he's single and has no children.

When I was your age, (...) - first
(...) I'd already had children. - second

We don’t need anybody to make us happy.
We need "don't" for a negative sentence in the present simple.

He finds it difficult to believe his therapist 
because she's in a happy relationship with children.

It’d be easier to believe her advice if she didn’t have pictures of her family everywhere.
It's the second conditional, an unreal condition in the present = if +past simple.

It’d be easier to believe. - would
I'd already had children. - had
The second conditional = "It would be easier". 
The past perfect = "I had already had children".

Part 2
We’d been together for five years before, one morning, my ex-girlfriend told 
me we weren't compatible anymore. After we’d broken up, my life didn’t change 
too much - I still went to work, met my friends, had dinner at my mum’s, and 
watched my favourite series. I started to understand what my ex-girlfriend 
meant by “not compatible”. I think I was mainly compatible with my friends’ 
beer-drinking habits, my mum’s cooking and my streaming services.

Why did Salim's ex-girlfriend leave him?
They had little in common.
Salim's ex-girlfriend told him they weren't compatible anymore.
We’d been|had been together for five years before my ex-girlfriend left me one morning.
After we’d broken up, my life didn’t change too much.

My life didn’t change too much - I still went to work, 
met my friends and had dinner at my mum’s.

He says he mainly spent time with his friends, at his mum's and watching films online.
I wasn't compatible with my ex-girlfriend.

Part 3
Could I be a better boyfriend next time? According to my therapist, I can be 
anything I want to be. According to my mum, I’m talented but lazy, so maybe if 
I just work a bit harder, I can be a great boyfriend. The kind of boyfriend 
her friends would be jealous of. The kind of boyfriend whose picture she'd 
keep on her phone screensaver. I’ve been single for exactly 360 days. But I 
will find myself a girlfriend and make her happy before a year has passed - 
although I only have five days to fall in love.

great
He wants to become a better boyfriend.

If I just work a bit harder, I can be a great boyfriend.
Salim thinks that you are a great boyfriend if your girlfriend's friends are jealous of her.

I'll find|will find myself a girlfriend and make her happy.

We don’t need anybody to make us happy.
It’d be easier to believe her advice if she didn’t have pictures of her family everywhere.
One day Maria disappears and the house becomes a single-parent household.

I fell in love with you the moment I saw you.
He was too nervous to ask her out, so they never went on a date.
I understand you have a crush on Sara but I don't think you're compatible with her.
They had already known they were not compatible before they moved in together.

---------------------
6. Expressing empathy
Learn expressions to show and react to empathy

I'm so sorry for your loss.
In this sentence, "to be sorry" is used 
to express empathy, not apologies.

I've heard about your grandmother. I'm so sorry for your loss.
We say "I'm sorry for your loss" to express empathy 
with a person who lost somebody important to them.

I'm so sorry you had to go through that.
We say "I'm so sorry you had to go through that" 
to express empathy with someone who has experienced 
a difficulty.

I know there was flooding in your area. 
I'm so sorry your family had to go through that.

The phrasal verb "to go through" means 
to experience a difficult situation.

I'm here for you.
If you need anything, I'm here for you.
We say "I'm here for you" to say we're available 
and willing to help.

If you need to talk, I'm here for you.
We say "I'm here for you" to say we're available 
and willing to help.

I appreciate that.
Michael, you've been very kind. I appreciate that.
We say "I appreciate that" if we are grateful 
to somebody for something they did or said.

I appreciate your kind words.

I'm so sorry for your loss. Showing empathy
I appreciate that. Reacting to empathy

We use "I'm so sorry for your loss / 
you had to go through that" to show empathy 
and respond using "I appreciate that".

It means a lot to me.
Silvia, you've supported me at work and 
it means a lot to me.

We say "It means a lot to me" when we feel grateful for something.

It means a lot to me. I appreciate that.
I'm so sorry for your loss.
I'm so sorry you had to go through that.

"I'm so sorry for your loss" = show empathy; 
"I appreciate that" / 
"It means a lot to me" = respond to empathy.

He was discriminated against.

He was treated badly because of his background 
and discrimination is not right.

I'm here|am here to support you.
We say "I'm here for you" to say we're available 
and willing to help.

Thanks, it means a lot to me.
We say "It means a lot to me" when we feel grateful for something.

VOCABULARY
I'm so sorry for your loss.

I'm so sorry you had to go through that.

I'm here for you.

I appreciate that.

It means a lot to me.

---------------
7. Developing fluency
Practise expressing empathy

We say "I'm so sorry for your loss" and 
"I'm here for you" to show empathy.

I heard about Luna. I'm so sorry for your loss.
We say "I'm sorry for your loss" to express empathy 
with a person who lost somebody important to them.

If you need to talk, I'm here for you.
We say "I'm here for you" to say we're available and willing to help.

Mi Kyong's friend suffered from strong headaches 
and Mi Kyong is showing her empathy.

I'm so sorry you have to go through all that pain.

The phrasal verb "to go through" means to experience a difficult situation.

If there's anything I can do, I'm here to support you .
We say "I'm here to support you" to say 
we're available and willing to help.

I'm here to support you.
In this sentence, "to support" means "to help".





























































































































































































