Trips abroad

1. Exploring commonly confused words
Learn the difference between "a journey" and "a trip"

I enjoyed the trip to the Grand Canyon 
but the bus journey was uncomfortable.

There is a subtle difference in meaning between 
"a trip" and "a journey".

a journey
The journey to the beach took 3 hours.
The word "a journey" focuses on the movement 
from place A to place B.

a trip
We're planning a trip to the beach to enjoy the sun.
My trip to Tijuana was amazing. 
I loved the food, the hotel and the people.

The word "a trip" focuses on the destination 
and the activities there.

Journey or trip?
The words journey and trip refer to travelling 
but focus on different aspects.

The train journey started very early in the morning. 
The focus is on the movement and getting 
from place A to B.

They went on a school trip to the museum.
The focus is on the destination and the activity.

The journey to Hong Kong took 15 hours
The focus is on getting to Hong Kong.

I'm away on a business trip to Hong Kong.
The focus is on why the speaker is in Hong Kong.

"a journey" = getting to the destination, 
"a trip" = staying at the destination, the activities

The train journey from New York to 
San Francisco took several days.

He caught a huge fish during his fishing trip.
In this sentence, the focus is on the purpose 
of travelling there (to fish).

Bye-bye, Steve! Have a good journey to Lima!
The speaker wants Steve to enjoy "the journey" 
– the process of getting there, driving, flying, etc.

Bye-bye, Helen! Have a good trip to Lima!
The speaker wants Helen to enjoy "the trip" – 
the whole experience of getting and staying there.

VOCABULARY
a journey
a trip







2.1 Future forms - Review future forms with "will" and "going to"

What are you going to do this weekend?
Since the subject of the sentence is "you", we use "are going to" instead of "is going to".

"will" vs. "be going to"
We can use either will or be going to in most contexts. Choosing one or the other doesn't usually affect meaning, but if you want to sound more fluent you should be aware of these points:

Prior plan: I am going to fly home on Sunday.
Quick decision: Great, I will pick you up from the airport.
About to happen: I should say goodbye now. My phone is going to run out of battery.
Prediction: Take care! I'm sure you will have a great time. / Take care! I'm sure you are going to have a great time.

That bag looks heavy. I'll help you.
The speaker saw the bag and made a quick decision to help, so they say "I'll help you."

Select the best response to this statement: "Look, here comes your suitcase!"
I'll get it!

We are going to go on a city break next month.
This sentence refers to a prior plan in the future, so the "be going to" form is used.

Don't worry if you mix up will and be going to - people will still understand you. The important thing is knowing how the two forms fit into sentences - for example, using the correct form of "be". Let's practise!

My friend and I are going to go to the night market on Saturday.
We say "are going to" here so that it agrees with the "we" form of the verb "to be": "are"

I think the food in Argentina will be spicy.
This sentence is making a prediction about the food on a future trip, so the form "will" is used.

Have you seen the weather forecast? It's going to rain heavily tomorrow.
It's contains the third person form of "to be" (is), so here we follow it with "going to".

My scuba diving trip to Egypt was really fun. I will show you some photos later!

When we have confirmed plans, we often use the present continuous instead of be going to. Check out the following examples:

I am going to go on a trip tomorrow.
I am going on a trip tomorrow.

They are going to move house soon. 
They are moving house soon.

He's not going to join us for dinner. 
He's not joining us for dinner.

A: What are you doing next weekend?
She's asking about her friend's plans for the weekend, so she uses the "present continuous".

I'm visiting friends in Istanbul next weekend.
We can also say "I'm going to visit friends...".

Here's a summary!

We have seen three ways to talk about the future. Check out the summary below, then continue practising!

will                    I will book the tickets tonight.
be going to             I'm going to book the tickets tonight.
present continuous      I'm booking the tickets tonight.

Are you going to go somewhere nice this summer?
To talk about future holiday plans that aren't confirmed yet, we use: "Are you going to go..."

We're going to Thailand for two weeks in August.
Here, the preposition "to" is required before the place "Thailand".

You book the flights and I'll book the hotel.
The correct future form here is: "I'll book".

I am going to go on vacation.
She is going to go on vacation.
We are going to go on vacation.

The staff were nice but the rooms were small and dirty - we won't stay there again.
We want to use the shortened negative form of "will not", which is "won't".

--------------------
2.2 Describing a trip - Express delight and disappointment

amazing
The food in the hotel restaurant was amazing!
The trip was amazing!
The hotel was disappointing.

amazing - when something is surprisingly good
disappointing - when something is worse than expected

inviting
The photos on the website made the hostel look very inviting.
* If something is "inviting" it is attractive 
or promises a good experience.

helpful
The staff in the hostel laundry service were so helpful!
If someone is "helpful" they are happy 
to provide others with help and assistance.

unforgettable
The sunset at the beach was unforgettable.
The hotel in Chiang Mai was very luxurious.

The positive adjective "luxurious" indicates 
something is expensive and very comfortable.

jaw-dropping
The view from the hotel room was jaw-dropping!
We can use the positive adjective "jaw-dropping" 
in a similar way to the adjective "amazing".

amazing, unforgettable, jaw-dropping
The positive adjectives here are "amazing", 
"unforgettable" and "jaw-dropping".

Our villa in Greece was so luxurious. It had an infinity pool!
If something is elegant and very comfortable, 
we can describe it as "luxurious".

once-in-a-lifetime
This was definitely a once-in-a-lifetime trip.

the highlight
Our kind host was the highlight of the trip for me.

a once-in-a-lifetime trip - an extremely rare opportunity
the highlight - the best part of something
an unforgettable experience - an experience that you won't forget

The hotel in Chiang Mai was very luxurious.

horrible
The air conditioning didn't work all week, it was horrible!

jaw-dropping
The view from the hotel room was jaw-dropping!

amazing, unforgettable, jaw-dropping
The positive adjectives here are "amazing", 
"unforgettable" and "jaw-dropping".

The location of the restaurant was nice but the food was nothing special.
* "Nothing special" means not particularly good.

to do something justice
The beach was beautiful - the photos really 
don't do it justice!

to leave much to be desired
The tiny kitchen left much to be desired.

Some of the phrases you have just learned 
are quite complex. Here's a quick recap:
Positive review
"It was great, the website doesn't do it justice." 
- Something is better than it appears in photos or online.

Negative review
"The tiny kitchen left much to be desired." - 
It was not satisfactory.

The photos don't do it justice.
The bathroom leaves much to be desired.

So far we have seen a variety of phrases to describe our travels. Let's have a quick look 
at them again before we practise using them.

Positive reviews                    Negative reviews
The photos don't do it justice.     The food was nothing special.
It was a once-in-a-lifetime trip.   The tiny kitchen left much to be desired.
It was an unforgettable experience. The tour was disappointing.

The hotel in Chiang Mai was very luxurious.
The positive adjective "luxurious" indicates something is expensive and very comfortable.

This was definitely a once-in-a-lifetime trip.
The water pressure in the villa was really disappointing.
The location of the restaurant was nice but 
the food was nothing special.

The tiny kitchen left much to be desired.
* If we say "something leaves much to be desired", 
it means it's of a poor standard.

The sunset at the beach was unforgettable.
The beach was beautiful - 
the photos really don't do it justice
* The speaker thinks the beach was better 
in real life that in photos.
The food was nothing special.
If something was not particularly good, 
we can say it was "nothing special".

Our villa in Greece was so luxurious. 
It had an infinity pool
If something is elegant and very comfortable, 
we can describe it as "luxurious".

VOCABULARY
amazing
inviting
helpful
unforgettable
The hotel in Chiang Mai was very luxurious.
jaw-dropping

---------------
Describing an unsuccessful trip
Learn negative adjectives to describe a trip

The hotel was disappointing.
The water pressure in the villa was really disappointing.

Careful with spelling – "disappointing" has only 
one "s", but two "p"s.

amazing - when something is surprisingly good
disappointing - when something is worse than expected

horrible
The air conditioning didn't work all week, it was horrible!

The location of the restaurant was nice 
but the food was nothing special.
"Nothing special" means not particularly good.

If something was "nothing special", it means 
it was unremarkable or not very impressive.

to leave much to be desired
The tiny kitchen left much to be desired.
If we say "something leaves much to be desired", 
it means it's of a poor standard.

VOCABULARY
The hotel was disappointing.
horrible
The location of the restaurant was nice 
but the food was nothing special.
to leave much to be desired



---------------
2.3 - Past simple review Review the past simple

Last weekend, I went to a cafe and read a book.
The verb "read" looks the same in present simple 
and past simple. Here, all verbs are past simple.

We use the past simple to talk about 
a completed action in the past.

Regular verbs in the past simple have the ending 
"-ed" walk → walked, move → moved, study → studied.

With irregular verbs, you have to learn the past 
simple forms one by one: 
go → went, take → took, make → made.
regular verbs examples
She walked to school yesterday.
He moved house last year.
What did you do last night? I studied English.

irregular verb examples
We went to the seaside every summer when we were kids.
I took lots of photos on that trip.
I didn't make you a birthday cake this year - 
I made cookies instead.

Last week I read a new novel by Haruki Murakami.
We toured the island on bicycles.
The island was really beautiful and 
the beaches were amazing.

Have you noticed that some verbs have 
two past simple forms? 
 Both forms are correct. The forms ending in -t 
 are especially common in British English.

Verb        Past Simple
burn        burned OR burnt
dream       dreamed OR dreamt
learn       learned OR learnt
smell       smelled OR smelt
spell       spelled OR spelt

In the UK, it's more common to say "learnt", 
while in the US "learned" is more common.

Last night I dreamt I ate a ten-pound marshmallow. 
When I woke up the pillow was gone.
I accidentally cut my finger when I put the knives 
in the dishwasher last night.
A few verbs – including "cut" – look and sound 
the same in the "present simple" and "past simple".

As soon as I got home, I put the shopping 
in the refrigerator.

Did he hurt you? Yeah, he hit me really hard!
My parents let me ride my bike to school, 
but only if I wore a helmet.

Now test your knowledge of the "past simple" 
with a quiz! Before you start, 
check out the conjugation table below:
Verb        Past simple
be          was / were
bring       brought
buy         bought
drink       drank
go          went

Last weekend, I went to a cafe and read a book.
We drank coffee yesterday.
I brought my sunglasses but I forgot my hat.
Our host, Minh, was great. She led us from the 
villa to the nearby shops and restaurants.
We didn't like the hotel at all. 
The room was small and the staff were unhelpful.
I prepared the desserts and put them in the fridge.
My sister didn't like cheese when she was little, 
but now she does.
I went shopping last weekend and bought a new coat.
We arrived early but the friendly hotel staff 
let us drop our bags in our room.

We didn't like the hotel at all. 
The room was small and the staff were unhelpful.

Where did you go?
The hostel only took cash payments, 
but fortunately there was an ATM nearby.
That was fun!
I prepared the desserts and put them in the fridge.

My sister didn't like cheese when she was little, 
but now she does.
I went shopping last weekend and bought a new coat.

We arrived early but the friendly hotel staff 
let us drop our bags in our room.
Where did you go?
The hostel only took cash payments, 
but fortunately there was an ATM nearby.
That was fun!


----------------
2.3 - Reading reviews - Read about travel experiences

User: Josephe89
March 13th, 2019
This was so disappointing! 
From pics this hotel looked inviting and chill 
with a cool concept, but the rooms were horrible, 
our shower had no water pressure, and when you 
flushed the toilet the shower became boiling hot. 
Our bathroom was not clean when we arrived and 
the breakfast area smelled funny. I
n the morning when we went to get breakfast, 
they had no more food! 
Laundry service in the hotel was very expensive, 
it was much cheaper in town. The room was too hot, 
and the air conditioning unit was not working. 
We liked the hammocks, palm trees and 
cheap bicycles for rent on site.

We can use the word "when" to connect two related 
events. Let's look at how the writer did it 
in this review:
When you flushed the toilet the shower became 
boiling hot.
Our bathroom was not clean when we arrived
In the morning when we went to get breakfast, 
they had no more food!

User: MartaTravelz
May 27th, 2017
The staff at the hostel were very friendly and welcoming. 
The hostel only took cash payments, but they were 
helpful and let us drop our bags before going 
into town to find an ATM. 
The condition of our room left much to be desired, 
and the hostel overall was very different from the pictures.
 All that said, the price was good for the area 
 and we were only a 10-15 minute walk from the beach. 
 The hostel is popular with backpackers, 
 and was a bit noisy at night because of this. 
 To be fair, staff were always present and 
 there to help when the noise level was too loud. 
 The breakfast was ok, nothing special. 
 All in all, the value of the hostel is great, 
 but if you're looking for the usual hotel 
 comforts then this place is not for you.

It was just ok.
She highlights both positive and negative aspects 
of her stay. On balance, it was OK, but not amazing.
"Staff" is a group of people, and is usually plural. An individual would be "a member of staff".

Did you notice?

There are two useful phrases based on the word 
"all" used in this text. "All that said," is a 
useful way to transition from a negative tone to a 
positive one. "All in all," is a nice way to begin 
a summary at the end of a review.

All that said, the price was good for the area and 
we were only a 10-15 minute walk from the beach.

All in all, the value of the hostel is great, 
but if you're looking for the usual hotel comforts 
then this place is not for you.
* "All in all" indicates that this sentence is 
a summary of what she said earlier.

User: Cool_HM
October 24th, 2018
Minh’s place was better than we thought possible. 
The pictures don’t do it justice! 
The house’s interior feels very luxurious, and 
there is a jaw-dropping view from the pool. 
We were very surprised when we arrived at how nice 
the house was! Minh was a super host. 
We went swimming every day and explored the city 
with Minh’s helpful suggestions for where to eat 
and what to see. On our first day she showed us 
around and gave us great tips on what to do. 
She also picked us up at the airport and 
led us from the villa to the nearby shops and restaurants. 
The pictures doesn’t show how private the villa is, 
we didn’t hear anyone and felt like we had 
the mountain all for ourselves. 
She was a very helpful host, and 
turned a romantic getaway into 
a once-in-a-lifetime unforgettable experience. 
If you're in Da Nang, don't hesitate to stay here, 
it will be the highlight of your trip! 
Thank you Minh for an amazing stay!

It was excellent.
They say the trip was a "once-in-a-lifetime, 
unforgettable experience", so it was "excellent".

show someone - around town
pick someone up - at the airport
turn something simple - into something great

What was most surprising about the stay?
how nice the place was

The three texts in this lesson show a normal 
pattern for reviews. Usually negative reviews are 
short and just list problems, and usually people 
who write positive reviews like to add more detail. 
This is not a perfect rule, but it can be 
a helpful place to start.
If you need to write something in English, 
it can be helpful to look at a few examples 
to understand the patterns people follow to help 
you find the right style to use.


The negative review
This review uses shorter sentences and lists a series of problems.

The neutral review
This review uses linking words to balance positives with negatives.

The positive review
This review uses more descriptive language like adjectives, and tells a story.

--------------------------
2.5 - Developing fluency Write an accommodation review

My experience at the Rou Hotel was rather disappointing.
The rooms were horrible and the area 
was very noisy at night.
* "noisy area" is the opposite of "quiet area".

The Espresso apartment had no air conditioning but the staff were very helpful.
The rooms are small and dark and there’s no air conditioning. But it's close to the centre and the staff were helpful.

The Espresso apartment itself is nothing special.
The staff were very helpful.
* amazing view / helpful staff / luxurious rooms / 
noisy at night / no air conditioning

Minka’s apartment is clean and the interior feels 
very luxurious. Plus, it has an amazing view of the sea.

The apartment is clean and the interior feels very luxurious.
I'm visiting friends in Istanbul next weekend.
* We can also say "I'm going to visit friends...".

The location of the restaurant was nice but 
the food was nothing special.
As soon as I got home, I put the shopping in the refrigerator.



















































