1. Describing cities
Describe places in different countries

cosmopolitan
Berlin has a cosmopolitan feel.
I was impressed by New York City, 
it had such a cosmopolitan feel!

"Cosmopolitan" generally means influenced 
by different countries and cultures.

lively
There are many lively areas in the old town.

traditional
In Spain it's traditional to have a late dinner.

Haggis is a traditional Scottish dish, 
but not everyone likes it.
Something is "traditional" when it has been a part 
of a group of people's culture for a long time.

historic
When you visit historic places like churches, 
you're expected to wear appropriate clothes.

I love the traditional pubs in London. Some are 
also historic and have been open for centuries!

Split's historic center is much bigger than I expected.
When we talk about the "historic center" of a town 
or city, we are referring to the older parts.

lively - full of life and activities
traditional - long-established custom
historic - from ancient times

noisy
Her window faced a noisy street in a touristy area.

I don't like how noisy cities are, 
so I usually go to the countryside.

picturesque
Peru is famous for its picturesque views.

Seville is one of the most picturesque places 
I've ever seen.
"Picturesque" means something is as beautiful as a great painting.

crowded
We've never seen a city as crowded as Tokyo.
When we say "a place is crowded", 
it means it's extremely busy.

polluted
I would never have thought that Paris was 
one of the most polluted cities in Europe.

I like living in this city, 
but the air sometimes feels quite polluted.

Paris is one of the most polluted cities in Europe.

polluted -bad or harmful air quality

cosmopolitan
influenced by different countries and cultures

crowded -full of people

VOCABULARY
cosmopolitan
lively
traditional
historic
noisy
picturesque
crowded
polluted

2. Describing places
Learn to describe a place in greater detail

Singapore has a cosmopolitan feel.

Notice the stress on the third syllable of 
"cos-mo-POL-i-tan".

When you visit historic places like churches, 
you're expected to wear appropriate clothes.

Did you notice?
Here are some phrases we can use to describe 
places we are travelling to in greater detail.

It's traditional to...
You're expected to...
The city has a ... feel.
The region is famous for...

You are visiting an ancient Greek temple on a 
quiet day. How can you describe it?
historic

We saw such picturesque places on our trip, 
it felt like a dream.

The word "picturesque" can be used to describe 
places which are pretty or attractive.

The tourist attractions were busy.
She says "the historic places were too crowded", 
meaning the tourist attractions were busy.

They stayed in a lively area with lots of bars 
and restaurants.

The word "lively" describes the atmosphere of a 
place, whereas "large" only describes the size.

I love the cosmopolitan feel of big cities.

They don't like how noisy cities are, 
so they usually go to the countryside.

polluted.
We use the word "polluted" if the air quality 
is bad in a city.

There are many lively areas in the old town.
We were trying to get away from the noisy city.

Peru is famous for its picturesque views.
Seville is one of the most picturesque places I've ever seen.

We really enjoyed the cosmopolitan atmosphere of the city.
A city which is influenced by different countries 
and cultures is "cosmopolitan", e.g. Singapore.

The Puerta del Sol was crowded.
We saw many people in traditional dresses.

3. Comparing places
Compare travel destinations

The hotel in Beijing was nicer than the one 
in New York.

The comparative form "was nicer than" indicates 
the speaker's comparing two hotels.

Two ways of forming comparatives

We form comparatives in two different ways:

1. one-syllable adjective + "-er" ending + "than"

2. "more/less" + adjective of 2 or more syllables + "than"

1. Mexico City is warmer than Toronto.
2. The hotel in Chicago was less luxurious 
than the hotel in Moscow.

Trams in Rome are slower than trams in Amsterdam.

Our last trip was more enjoyable than this one.

noisier than
The restaurant is noisier today than it was yesterday.

Changes in spelling
Adjectives ending in "-y" change their ending 
to "-ier" in a comparison.

When an adjective ends in a vowel + a consonant, 
we double that consonant before adding "-er".

happy - happier
big - bigger

Shanghai is bigger than Paris.

Irregular comparatives
There are some irregular comparative adjectives:

good - "better"
bad - "worse"

Food in Italy is better than food in the U.K.

Comparing nouns
We can use "more / less ... than" to compare nouns 
to each other. We use "fewer" instead of "less" 
when the noun is countable.

There are more bicycles in Amsterdam than in Warsaw.
There are fewer people in St Petersburg than in Moscow.
There is less snow in Snowdonia than in the Alps.

There are more beaches in Australia than in France.
There were fewer museums than I expected.

I enjoyed the tour of the Louvre. 
It was bigger and more interesting than I expected.

She says "it was more interesting than I expected",
 so she enjoyed her museum visit.

I expected lots of tourists, 
but Gdansk was more peaceful than I thought!

In my opinion, the centre of Vienna was less 
old-fashioned than Prague.

as many as
James brought as many bags as Juliana.

Comparing equal things
To say that two things are equal in some way, 
we say that something is "as" + adjective + "as" 
something else.

When we talk about equal quantities, 
we say "as many" + noun + "as". 
Let's look at some examples:

Istanbul is as crowded as London.
There are as many museums in Athens as in Rome.

Sebastian is as excited as Ana.

Our trip to Peru was as wonderful as our trip to Colombia. 
I love South America!

She uses the adjective "wonderful", indicating that her trips 
to Peru and Colombia were positive.

I'm as excited as my husband about our anniversary trip 
to San Francisco this summer!

There are more beaches in Australia than in France.
This restaurant is noisier now than before.
Istanbul is as crowded as London.

She liked Peru and Colombia the same amount.

Hanoi was great, but this year I want to visit 
a less touristy city.

The centre of Vienna was less old-fashioned than Prague.

VOCABULARY
noisier than
as many as

4. Describing natural places
Learn vocabulary to talk about natural places

a coral reef
The coral reef is full of colourful marine life.
Coral reefs can be found in clear, warm waters.

"coral reefs" are underwater ecosystems.

a sandy beach
Couples walked along the sandy beach at sunset.
The children played happily on the sandy beach.

"a sandy beach" is covered with sand unlike 
"a rocky beach" that is covered with rocks.

a waterfall
We could hear the peaceful sound of a waterfall 
in the forest.
We took a boat and went behind the waterfall.

a cliff
She sat on the grassy cliff and enjoyed the view.
The climbers reached the top of the cliff.

a coral reef
a sandy beach

a cave
The children took their flashlights and entered the cave.
The cave was dark and damp but we went in.

It can be found underground. - a cave
It can be found underwater. - a coral reef

She stood at the edge of the cliff looking 
at the ocean below.
"a cliff" is a tall, steep rock wall.

We found seashells on the sandy beach during our morning walk.

The cave was dark and silent but they decided to explore it.
"a cave" is a natural underground space.

"water falling down the cliff" and "powerful sound" 
suggest that Phillip is talking about a waterfall.

It’s impressive to watch 
all the water falling down the cliffs.

Indonesia is a diver's paradise because of its underwater world
 of coral reefs and tropical animals.

Its waters are full of marine life, 
including colourful coral reefs.

"dark underground spaces", "silence" and "geological 
formations" suggest she's talking about caves.

Exploring caves can be an exciting activity.

VOCABULARY
a coral reef
a sandy beach
a waterfall
a cliff
a cave

5. Understanding a vlogger
Watch a person talk about his favourite places

Ben:
Life can be really ​stressful​. 
When I get stressed,​ I like to think about beautiful places. 
Places I know very well and can visit just by closing 
my eyes.

Places I can also visit by watching back old videos 
that I made when I was at beautiful places. 
I thought I would share some with you. 
Here are some of my favourite places.

Ben:
Lake Ontario, in Canada. 
I love walking on the rocks. 
Walking on the big ​rocks​ is somehow really r​elaxing​ 
for me. I love the sound of the waves​ and 
I think about it all the time.

Sometimes I go early in the morning and 
watch the ​sunrise.​ The most beautiful thing 
I have ever seen is the city of Toronto catching 
the sunlight. Just look at that, look at it! 
​It takes my breath away.

Ben:
West Palm Beach is my family’s favourite place 
for vacation. It’s in South Florida, 
in the United States. The s​and​ of West Palm Beach is 
so beautiful and it feels so nice on your feet.

The sea is really important to me because 
it’s so much bigger than a lake. 
Standing on the coast​ is like standing 
at the edge of the world.

Why does Ben mention his favourite places?
Thinking of them relaxes him.
When he gets stressed, he likes to think about beautiful places.

a lake
During the summer, my family loves to go camping by a lake.
Children were swimming in the lake on a warm day.

a wave
Happily, the surfer caught a big wave.

During the storm, a wave crashed against the rocks.
"waves" are water moving up and down.

a sunrise
The colours of the sky were beautiful during the sunrise.
I like swimming in the sea at sunrise.
Tammy likes swimming in the sea very early in the morning.
"the sunrise" is the time in the morning 
when the sun appears.

Toronto catching the sunlight is the most beautiful thing 
and it takes Ben's breath away.

Ben's first favourite place is Lake Ontario, in Canada.
Lake Ontario is one of Ben's favourite places 
and he likes walking on rocks there.

Sometimes I go early in the morning and watch the sunrise.
I love the sound of the waves​ and I think about it all the time.

a coast
We took a relaxing walk along the coast.
They built their house near the coast.
Standing on the coast​ is like standing at the edge of the world.
"the coast" is the area where land meets the sea or ocean.

a sunset
I love taking photographs of the sunset.
After the sunset, it's dangerous to hike 
without proper lighting.

"sunset" is the moment when the sun disappears.

Arthur's Seat is a cliff near Edinburgh 
and Ben likes going there to watch the sunset.
I usually go there with a friend and watch the ​sunset​.

It reminds him that we are all the same and 
he feels grateful to be alive in this beautiful world.

Thinking of beautiful natural places makes Ben feel creative.

VOCABULARY
a lake
a wave
a sunrise
a coast
a sunset

6. Developing fluency
Compare two places

Do you prefer nature holidays or city holidays?
Howard says, "Definitely nature holidays."

Natural places are more relaxing than cities.
We use "than" to make comparisons.

Natural places are less crowded and simply more relaxing.
"crowded" means full of people.

I feel natural places are better for my health and 
I always feel less stressed there.

"better" is the irregular comparative form of "good".

I always feel less stressed in nature.

"less" is used to compare adjectives. 
"fewer" is used to compare countable nouns.

City holidays offer a richer cultural experience and in nature, 
you can't always talk to locals.

City holidays offer a richer cultural experience.
There are fewer people out in nature 
so you can’t even talk to locals.

Demi says that the weather makes city holidays 
easier to plan than nature holidays.

City holidays are easier to plan than nature holidays.

Patricia says that city holidays can be as exciting as nature holidays.

City holidays can be as exciting as nature holidays.
Cities have a more lively atmosphere and generally 
cheaper accommodation.






















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































