Travel plans

1.1 - Going on holiday - Talk about travel plans

Are you going on vacation this year?

Did you know that in the USA people say "on vacation", but in the UK people normally say "on holiday"?
Both words will be understood anywhere English is spoken, but remember to use the preposition "on".

I'm going abroad this summer.
I'm going abroad next month with a friend! I can't wait!
* To go abroad means you are travelling to a different country.

I'm going abroad to Iceland in January to see the Northern Lights!
* Listen carefully to the pronunciation, as this is a difficult word – the speaker says "ab-road".

I'm planning a staycation here in the US.
I'm not going abroad this year. I'm planning a staycation instead.
I've booked a short getaway to Paris.
I'm planning a surprise getaway for my husband's birthday next weekend.
* A getaway refers to a short holiday. It can be in your country or abroad.
Are you planning a staycation?
* A holiday at home or in your country is known as "a staycation"

VOCABULARY
Are you going on vacation this year?
I'm going abroad this summer.
I'm planning a staycation here in the US.
I've booked a short getaway to Paris.

---------------------------
1.2 - Describing travel experiences - Use "yet" and "already" for general experiences

Have you visited London before?

Have you visited London before? a general question about life experience
Did you go to the USA last year? a specific question about a specific event

* We use the present perfect ("have" + past participle) to talk about general life experiences.

Yes, I've been to London.
I've been to Amsterdam. * "I have been to Amsterdam" means she has visited the city before.
Yes, I've already been to the US.
I've already been to the US.
The word "already" has two possible positions: 
in the middle or at the end of the sentence.

No, I haven't visited the UK yet!
Tim hasn't visited Cairo yet. * yet means until the present time.

"Yet" or "already"?
We use "yet" and "already" to talk about general life experiences until now.

Already                             Yet
usually affirmative                 usually negative
final or mid-position               final position
She's already been to Asia twice.   He hasn't been abroad yet.

I haven't booked the hotel yet.
* We use "yet" in negative sentences.

VOCABULARY
Have you visited London before?

Yes, I've been to London.

Yes, I've already been to the US.

No, I haven't visited the UK yet!

------------------------------
1.3 - Discussing holiday types - Talk about different types of holiday

an active holiday
I'm not really into active holidays. 
I prefer to just lie on the beach with a book.

I get bored easily at the beach. I prefer active holidays.
*"An active holiday / vacation" is a holiday 
where you spend your time doing lots of activities.

She's planning on doing lots of sports, so this 
is an active holiday (an active holiday).

Would you prefer to go on a city break or a beach getaway?
* A short trip to another city is "a city break". 
We also say "beach break" but not "city getaway".

a city break
Let's go on a city break. Have you ever been to Lisbon?

Stefan is going on a city break to Berlin 
("a city break"). 
He's excited about the museums and culture.

a luxury stay
I've planned a luxury stay at a villa 
in Santorini for my parents' wedding anniversary.

For my birthday, I'm planning a luxury stay 
at a boutique hotel in Mexico.
* If you like your holiday to be very comfortable, 
you can book a luxury stay ("a luxury stay").

a package tour
I love wine, so I'm going on a package tour of 
vineyards in the Loire Valley!

I don't like planning vacations so I booked 
a package tour online.
* A "package tour" is a trip which 
a travel company organises on your behalf.

I booked a package tour for my next vacation.
* She booked a package tour, so everything 
was organised by a travel company.

a luxury stay at a spa in Thailand with a pool 
and yoga classes

The most relaxing and comfortable option is 
the luxury spa in Thailand.

VOCABULARY
an active holiday
a city break
a luxury stay
a package tour

1.4 - Planning a trip - Listen to people discussing holiday plans

Paula and Marta are trying to decide on their next holiday...
*****************************
Marta: 
Well, there are many options to choose from, 
just look this is what I found online. 
They have a variety of destinations and 
types of holidays
Paula: It looks interesting. 
Can you go to the destinations tab? 
I haven’t been to Asia yet. 
Do they have any Asian countries?
Marta: They do, look,... 
I think it’s all package holidays...
Paula: Yeah, it says that the accommodation, 
flights and meals are included.
Marta: I don’t like these prices. 
I think I’d rather stay in Europe this summer. 
It’s just cheaper and life has become so expensive 
here in Poland.
Paula: Yeah, I know what you mean. 
I don't mind going on a short city break instead.
Marta: That would be great! 
Look, they have these last-minute deals.
Marta: What about Lisbon?
Paula: Sorry, I've already been to Lisbon.
Marta: And have you been to Copenhagen yet?
Paula: Not yet, but I’m going there this summer 
with my mum for her birthday.
Marta: Lucky you! The city looks amazing…
Paula: Can you click on Istanbul? 
I’d love to go there and the price is OK.
Marta: Let’s see! I haven’t been to Istanbul so 
that could be a great city to explore.

Paula hasn't been to Copenhagen yet.
Marta asks "Have you been to Copenhagen before?" and Paula says "Not yet".

Where do you want to go for your next vacation abroad?
I've been to USA already, but not Canada.
For my next vacation abroad, I want to go to Canada because I haven't been there yet!
* Remember, we use "yet" in negative sentences and "already" in positive ones.
 
 Luxury beach getaways aren't really my thing.
* When you don't really like something, you can say "It's not my thing!".

I love active vacations in nature, so 
I want to spend some time in the Rocky Mountains.
Lisa prefers vacations where she can do lots of different activities.

I'm planning to go on a package tour for two weeks this summer.
"A package tour" is great for people 
who don't like to organise their own holidays.

a holiday destination
They talk about a variety of destinations 
to choose from.

I haven’t been to Asia yet.
"Yet" means "until now" and it's usually used 
in negative sentences.

5. Developing fluency
Talk about your holiday plans

Where do you want to go for your next vacation abroad?
Xabier says that for his next vacation 
abroad he wants to go to Canada.

Where do you want to go for your next vacation abroad?

The word "abroad" is a little tricky to write 
and pronounce. Listen again to the vowel sounds.

I want to go to Canada because I haven't been there yet. 
I have been to the USA already, but not Canada.

He's been to the USA already but not Canada.

For my next vacation abroad, I want to go to 
Canada because I haven't been there yet!

Remember, we use "yet" in negative sentences 
and "already" in positive ones.

I've been to USA already, but not Canada.

A city break isn't really his thing. He's planning 
to do a package tour for two weeks this summer.

Luxury beach getaways aren't really my thing.
When you don't really like something, 
you can say "It's not my thing!".

I'm planning to go on a package tour for two weeks this summer.
"A package tour" is great for people 
who don't like to organise their own holidays.

I haven't booked the hotel yet.
Tim hasn't visited Cairo yet.

------------

VOCABULARY

Hey there! Just checking in.

Hey there, got a minute?

Catch you later!

Talk soon!

Have a good one!

We use "Hey there! Just checking in." in informal situations and
it's an example of using informal grammar.

Omitting words in informal grammar
In informal situations, we often leave out the subject 
("I", "you" or "we") and the auxiliary verb ("have", "will", "be", "do").

This makes the sentence shorter and more casual.

I'm just checking in.
formal or neutral, using a subject and auxiliary verb

Just checking in.
informal, no subject or auxiliary verb

Catch you later!
It's a casual version of "I'll see you later".

It was great to hear from you. (We'll) Talk soon!
In a casual situation, we usually omit 
the subject "I" or "we" when it's clear from the context.

Hey there, got a minute?
It's a casual version of "Have you got a minute?"

(Do you) Want a coffee?

...) Got a moment to discuss this?(Have you)
(...) Feeling better today?(Are you)

to delete
If you delete a message, you can’t get it back.

She says she accidentally deleted the message.

I always delete unnecessary messages.

to reply
Please reply to my text so I know you got it.

After reading the message, I replied right away.
I like to reply quickly to my friends' messages.

to type
She types very quickly when she sends texts.

You didn't type the word correctly. There's a spelling mistake.

"I need to type a quick message to my friend."
"Go ahead, I’ll wait."

"I accidentally deleted the entire conversation."
"Oh no! Do you need me to send it again?"

to receive
She received a text while we were talking.

She forwarded me the picture of the sunset you sent.

Did you receive my text about the meeting?

I received a nice message from my mum and replied with a heart emoji.

to forward
She forwarded me the text she got from her boss.

I'm going to forward that funny video to our group chat.

She received a funny video from her cousin.

Give me a call!
Give me a call if you need anything.
She says "Give me a call!" and it's an informal way of saying "Call me."

Give me a call if you have any questions.

Hit me up when you have a second.
Hit me up for dinner this week.
In the phrase "Hit me up!", we use the word 
"hit" to mean "to contact", not "to physically harm".

Hit me up if you're interested in collaborating.
The phrase "Hit me up!" is an informal way of saying "Contact me".

Ping me when you’re free to talk.
Listen Bruno, ping me if you need help with that project, ok?
In the phrase "Ping me!", "to ping" means 
contacting someone electronically via messaging or email.

Ping me if you hear back from the client.

Give me a call! a phone conversation
Ping me! a message via email, text, chat apps

Reach out anytime!
Hi Linda! Reach out when you’re free for a coffee.
We use the phrase "Reach out!" 
if we want somebody to communicate with us.

Reach out to plan our next hiking trip.

Reach......out anytime!
Ping......me anytime!
Hit......me up anytime!

Sally: Hey there, got a minute? 
I need to talk to you about something. 

Gustavo: Yeah, what’s going on? 

Sally: You know the pictures you forwarded to the group chat? 
The ones from the party. 
Orla is really upset — she didn’t want those pictures shared. 

Gustavo: Oh no, I’m so sorry! I’ll delete them right now. 

Sally: Maybe you could also reach out to her and explain. 

Gustavo: Yeah, absolutely. Thanks for pinging me about it. 

Sally: No problem! Have a good one! 

Gustavo: Catch you later!

-------------------
a tenant အိမ်ငှား

A new tenant moved into the building last week.

I'm a tenant in this flat with two other flatmates.

The word "tenant" refers to a person 
who pays rent to live or work in a property.

Each tenant has a key to the main door.

a landlord / a landlady
The landlord collects rent on the first of each month.

I called the landlord to fix the broken window.
The word "landlord" (man) or "landlady" (woman) 
is someone who owns and rents out property.

My landlady explained the rules for the building.

an estate agent
The estate agent helped us find a nice apartment near the city centre.
I work as an estate agent.

The term "(real) estate agent" means a person who helps people buy, sell or rent properties.

I asked the estate agent to show me houses with big gardens.
In the term "estate agent," the word "estate" refers to "property"; "state" can mean "nation".

a tenancy agreement
You need a tenancy agreement to rent a flat legally.
I signed the tenancy agreement last week.
The landlord gave me a copy of the tenancy agreement.

Regional differences
In the context of renting an apartment, some words are different in British and American English.

UK English 🇬🇧
a flat (a flat)
a tenant (a tenant)
an estate agent (an estate agent)
a tenancy agreement (a tenancy agreement)

US English 🇺🇸
an apartment
a renter
a realtor
a lease agreement

We hired a realtor to help us find our first home in the city.
I just signed the lease agreement for my new apartment.

In her lease (lease), renters (renters) cut the grass.
The man says his landlord (landlord) does it.

VOCABULARY
a tenant
a landlord / a landlady
an estate agent
a tenancy agreement


Understanding rental terms
Learn compound nouns found in rental contracts

property details
The property details include the size and location of the house.
Before I rented my current flat, I checked the property details carefully.
The website has all the property details for each home available to rent.

Correct or suitable = "proper"; something that you own,
 like land or a building = "property".

a security deposit
Many landlords ask for a security deposit before a tenant moves into an apartment.
I paid a security deposit of $700 before moving in.

The term "security deposit" means the money a tenant gives 
a landlord to pay for any damage.

I have to ask the landlord when I'll get the security deposit back.
Money for potential damage = security deposit, 
a box for keeping valuable items = safety deposit.

tenancy terms
Some tenancy terms may include rules about pets or noise.
I discussed the tenancy terms with the landlady to avoid any problems.


The term "tenancy terms" refers to the rules 
in a rental agreement between a landlord and a tenant.

I asked the landlady to explain the tenancy terms again 
because I was unsure about the rules.

tenancy terms - the rules in a rental agreement
property details - information about a flat's size, location etc.
security deposits - money for potential damage

a utility bill
Utility bills cover the cost of electricity, water and gas.
My utility bills were very high last winter.
I need to pay my utility bills by the end of the month.

The term "utility bill" means a bill for services 
like electricity, water, and rubbish collection.

Compound nouns
In a compound noun, the first noun usually specifies or 
describes the second noun, often by showing its purpose,
 function or origin.

The first noun in a compound noun is usually singular.

utility bills
bills for utilities (water, electricity)

property details
details of a property (house, land)

tenancy terms
terms of a tenancy agreement

The landlord described the property details during the viewing.
Before paying a security deposit, read the rental agreement carefully.

The tenancy terms state that the tenant pays the utility bill.

VOCABULARY
property details
a security deposit
tenancy terms
a utility bill


My landlord must fix important things such as heating.
We use the verb "must" to express obligation.

Differences in meaning

The verbs "need to", "have to", "must" and "shall" express obligation,
 but there are differences in how strong the obligation is.

informal / neutral
need to: rules that feel important
have to: obligation due to rules or laws

Tone of obligation
soft
strong

formal / legal
must: legal or morally important rules
shall: legal obligation

Tone of obligation
very strong
very strong

As a landlord, I must provide a safe property for my tenants.
The speaker thinks he has a legal and moral obligation
 to provide a safe property for the tenant.

As a landlady, I need to make sure my tenants are comfortable.

The tenant shall maintain the property in good condition.
legal context

You have to keep the property in good condition.
everyday conversation

Differences in form
Notice the "to" after the verb in "need to" and "have to".
The verbs "must" and "shall" take the infinitive form of the verb without "to".

have to / need to
They need to / have to sign the agreement.

shall / must 
They shall /must sign the agreem

The tenant has to cover utility bills if they are not included in the rent.
The contract says the tenant shall pay rent on time each month.
The renter must notify the landlord immediately about any problems with the property.

The tenant needs to pay the security deposit before moving in.
We use "need to"+ infinitive to express a necessary rule.
The landlord shall provide the tenant with a copy of the tenancy terms.

The renter needs to avoid making loud noises during early morning hours.

----

Expressing rights and obligations
Learn phrases to talk about rights and obligations

to be allowed to
Tenants are allowed to use the shared garden.
I'm allowed to keep pets in the flat.

Tenants are allowed to use the building’s gym as part of their lease.
We use "be allowed" + "to" + infinitive to talk about permissions.

Tenants are not allowed to paint the walls a different colour.

to have the right to
Tenants have the right to privacy in their home.
I have the right to know when my tenacy finishes.
The speaker thinks his landlord must tell him when his tenancy finishes.

I have the right to receive a copy of the contract.

The phrase "to have the right to" means we can do something, 
usually because of a rule or law.

Renters have...
the right to contact the landlord any time.
Tenants are...
allowed to hang pictures on the walls.

to agree to
The tenant agreed to pay for utilities separately from the rent.

I agreed to all the terms in the tenancy agreement.

The speaker accepted all the terms in the tenancy agreement.

The landlord agreed to repair the heating system.

to be required to
Tenants are required to keep the flat clean and undamaged.
We are required to pay a security deposit.

We use the phrase "to be required to" to say we must do something
because of rules or laws.

My landlord is required to keep the property in good condition.
Landlords are required to install smoke alarms in the property.

He says: I was required to leave the flat clean, 
I agreed to general cleanliness, I had the right to get my deposit.

Tenants are allowed to decorate the flat.
It's optional.
Tenants are required to decorate the flat.
It's obligatory.

VOCABULARY
to be allowed to

to have the right to

to agree to

to be required to

Understanding a tenancy agreement
Read an extract from a tenancy agreement

Tenancy agreement

1. ______
This agreement is made between the Landlord, Jonathan Zafar,
 and the Tenant, Sarah Johnson.


2. ______
The rental property is located at 123 Maple Street,
 Apartment 4B, Springfield. It includes two bedrooms, one bathroom,
 a furnished kitchen, and access to a shared garden.


3. ______
The Tenant is required to pay $1,000 before moving in. 
The Landlord shall use it for damages or unpaid rent. 
The money must be refunded within 30 days if the property is in good condition

1. ______Contracting parties
2. ______Property details
3. ______Security deposit

The property details include information about the location
and extras such as a communal garden.

The money must be refunded within 30 days if the property is in good condition.

4. ______

The Tenant is required to keep the home clean and take care of it properly.

The Tenant must inform the Landlord if something is broken or needs repair.

The Tenant agrees to get the Landlord’s permission before making big changes, like painting walls.

5. ______

The Tenant has the right to request repairs 
for any major problems, such as 
broken heating or water leaks, and the Landlord must provide solutions.

The Tenant has the right to privacy. 
The Landlord is not allowed to enter 
the property without permission, except in emergencies.

The Tenant has the right to receive 
a written notice if the rent is going to increase.

4. ______
Tenant's obligations
5. ______
Tenant's rights

Developing fluency
Talk about rights and obligations

We have to|need to pay 3 or 6 months' rent in advance.
I was allowed to negotiate a lower deposit.
My security deposit was only one month’s rent.
My landlady pays the utility bills.

For repairs, my tenancy terms say that 
I’m required to pay half of the costs.

I’m required to|am required to pay half of 
the costs of the repairs after the first month.
I have the right to see a copy of the utility bill.


----------
Chapter 4: At a bank








