Experiences

I'm gonna try Ethiopian food for the first time.
This means the same as "I'm going to try Ethiopian food for the first time."
The word "gonna" is the casual form of "going to".

I really wanna master French cuisine.
In speech, we often use "wanna" as a more casual way of saying "want to".

I kinda like Indian food, but only if it's not too spicy.

I like tacos, but they're kinda hard to eat.
Here, "kinda" is a more casual way of saying "kind of" and its meaning 
is similar to "quite".

Sounding natural👂
*****************
Confident English speakers often blend words together when speaking 
or writing in casual situations.

going + to
I'm gonna try Ethiopian food for the first time. 

want + to
I really wanna master French cuisine. 

kind + of
I kinda like Indian food, but only if it's not too spicy. 

kinda - kind of
wanna - want to
gonna - going to

Confident English speakers often blend words together when speaking 
or writing in casual situations.

It tastes, like, a little sweeter than I expected.

Do you, like, melt the sugar?
The word "like" doesn't add any meaning to the sentence. 
We use it to pause and think while speaking.

I kinda, like, like it! 👍
****************
The word "like" is used a lot in conversation by native speakers. It's often 
used in a similar way to "well..." or "er..." and doesn't actually mean 
anything in this context.

I, like, didn't wanna be rude, so I ate the sushi, even though I really, like, hate it.

Do you, like, melt the sugar, or just heat it a little bit?

I've, like, never tried Korean donuts before.
* The word "like" doesn't add any meaning to the sentence. 
We use it to pause and think while speaking.

VOCABULARY

I'm gonna try Ethiopian food for the first time.

I really wanna master French cuisine.

I kinda like Indian food, but only if it's not too spicy.

It tastes, like, a little sweeter than I expected.

------------------------
2. Describing past experiences - Talk about tasting food

Have you tried Korean food before?

Have you cooked Korean food before?

Have you cooked Korean food before?
We can use the present perfect tense "Have you... + past participle?" 
to ask someone about their experiences.

Have you tried Korean food before?
We can use the present perfect tense "Have you... + past participle?"
 to ask someone about their experiences.

I haven't ever tried Korean food.
Have you ever tasted anything like this before?
This is a question, so "ever" is used 
to ask about past experiences.

Oh my god! I've never tasted tomatoes 
like these before.

No, this is totally unique. I've never tasted anything this good.
We use "never" with the positive present perfect form (I've... tasted).

I haven't ever tasted anything like this before.
I've never tasted anything so good.

We use "ever" with the negative verb form ("I haven't..."), 
and "never" with the positive form ("I've...").

I've never tasted anything this good! ⭐
You might sometimes hear people use "ever" 
and "never" to emphasise a good 
or bad experience.

Good experience ➕
🤩 Wow! I've never tasted anything like this! It's fantastic.
🤩 Oh my god! This is the best meal I've ever eaten.

Bad experience ➖
🤢 Oh my god! I've never tasted anything like this! It's awful.
🤢 Wow! This is the worst meal I've ever eaten.

I've never tasted anything so good.
It's better to use contracted forms like "I've..." if you want to sound more natural!

Oh my god! This is the best meal I've ever eaten.
We can use "ever" with the positive present perfect form (I've...eaten).

VOCABULARY

Have you tried Korean food before?

I haven't ever tried Korean food.

Oh my god! I've never tasted tomatoes like these before.

-------------------
3. Expressing delight and disgust - Express positive and negative reactions

Wow!
Oh my god!
Oh my god, this chocolate mousse is so light! Wow!
* The speaker uses "Oh my god!" and "Wow!" to express a positive reaction.

Oh my god! I've never tasted such fresh sushi!
The speaker uses the expression "Oh my god!" to express surprise and delight.

Wow! These donuts are delicious!
He says "Wow!" to show he is impressed and surprised by how good the donuts taste.

Wow! I've never tasted such a spicy sauce. 
I might need some water!
We can also use "wow" and "oh my god" to react negatively – 
it all depends on our tone of voice!

That's fantastic!
That naan's fantastic – it's so fluffy!
* We can say food is "fantastic". Notice the stress on the second syllable: 
"fan-TAS-tic".

This is pretty incredible!
Oh my god, this sauce tastes incredible.
When we really like some food, we can describe it as "incredible".

VOCABULARY
Wow!

Oh my god!

That's fantastic!

This is pretty incredible!

------------------------
4. Describing cuisine - Talk about cuisine from different countries

Rice is a staple in Asian cuisine.
Listen carefully. She says "a staple".

a staple
Coconut milk is a staple in Thai cooking.

You can get authentic Turkish food in London.
The adjective "authentic" implies that 
the food is really like the food eaten 
in Turkiye itself.

authentic
This tastes like real, authentic Italian pizza.

These crepes have turned out really well!
We use the phrasal verb "turn out" to talk about the result of something.

to turn out
This cheesecake didn't turn out so well. I burned the top of it!

Cooking Korean
*******************
Danielle: Well I have a suprise for you today...
Kristen: Yeah?
Danielle:I've got a friend of mine..
Kristen: (Okay..)
Danielle:...who is a Korean culinary ambassador and a great cook, Mangchi. 
So she's gonna show us how to make kimchi.
Kristen: I'm excited!

Danielle: Hi Mangchi!
Maangchi: Oh, wow!
Danielle: (to Mangchi) This is Kristen.
Kristen: (to Mangchi) Very nice to meet you!
Maangchi: Kristen, nice to meet you.
Kristen: Thank you so much, likewise..
Maangchi: I'd like to teach you how to make the kimchi, okay?
 Because kimchi is very staple. 
 All Koreans they cannot survive without the kimchi...
Kristen: yeah...
Maangchi: So let's start!
Kristen: perfect, perfect...
Maangchi: Tear this, this is the way. We are going to cut it into bite size.
Kristen: Did I pass? I'm ok?... It worked!
Maangchi: Okay...pour some water and make it wet. Wet like this...okay. 
And then I'll use a quarter cup
Kristen: A quarter cup...
Maangchi: Oh my baby! (talking to cabbage)...then mix...oh my god, 
this a real authentic-style kimchi
Kristen: yeh?
Maangchi: yeh... I'm so glad that you learn kimchi from me
Kristen: And then I'll teach you how to make...
Maangchi: French...
Kristen: French stuff!
Maangchi: Then you mix this...
Kristen: Are you gonna feed me?
Maangchi: Yeah! (feeding Kristen kimchi) Oh my!

Narrator: The kimchi has turned out really well.

Maangchi: Gimme five!

Narrator: This time is was the professional chef's turn to be on the receiving 
end of a great cooking lesson with some excellent results. Time to dig in!.

Hi, Maangchi. Oh wow!
Remember, the phrase "oh wow" can be used for both positive and negative reactions.

Korean people eat kimchi very frequently.
Maangchi says Kimchi is "a staple". This means it's eaten by Korean people everywhere.

Oh my god this is a real authentic-style kimchi. Yeah?
Maangchi says "Oh my god!" to show she's impressed by the authenticity of the kimchi.
She says "Oh my god!". This shows she's impressed with the way the kimchi has turned out.

Kristen: Are you gonna feed me?
Mangchi: Yeah! (feeding Kristen kimchi) Oh my!

It's delicious.
Kristen uses the word "delicious" to describe the kimchi. Her reaction is positive.

Gimme five! Yes!
Maangchi and Kristen are celebrating how well the kimchi turned out.
Gimme five" is what we say when we want to celebrate a success.

VOCABULARY

a staple

authentic

to turn out

-----------------
5. Developing fluency - Talk about food in your culture

You have probably tasted Turkish food in your country.
This is an example of the present perfect, 
so we use the past participle form of "taste": "tasted".

Homemade food is incredibly important in my culture.
We write the adjective "homemade" as one word.

In my country, we eat a lot of homemade food with fresh ingredients.
We write the adjective "homemade" as one word.

"Bulgur wheat" is a staple ingredient in my culture.
A "staple ingredient" refers to a type of food that is extremely common 
or used a lot.

Tomato paste is a Turkish kitchen staple.
Tomato paste is a very common food used in Turkish cuisine!

Some places don't sell authentic "lokum".
If something is "authentic", it means it's of genuine quality.

Ceyda:
In Turkey we have a rich history of 
migration and meeting with other cultures, 
and that is reflected in our cuisine..

Our food is very popular outside of Turkey 
as well. You've probably visited Turkish 
restaurants and tasted Turkish food in your country.

Many people seem to think Turkish food is 
all grilled meat and flat bread, but it's 
more diverse than that. Bulgur wheat is a 
staple ingredient for us and we use it to 
make pilafs. A sweet dish that we are very 
famous for is 'lokum' or 'Turkish delight.' 
It is made in many countries around the 
world, but be careful! Some places don't 
sell authentic 'lokum', and so you have to 
visit a special Turkish shop or restaurant.

It's absolutely delicious!






























































































































































































































































































































































































































