Communication
1. Intercultural communication - Learn to interact with people from other cultures

The residents of Quay Point are meeting each other for the first time.

Arshad:
Hi, I am Arshad, but call me Ash! Have you been here long?

Kiko:
Hello, my name is Kiko. Lovely to meet you. 
And yes, I moved in yesterday from Tokyo. Welcome!

Arshad:
Thank you. My wife and I just moved to the city to study a Master's in 
Human Resources Management. We used to work together back in Jordan, 
but, you know, the money's not great unless you have a degree from 
abroad... so, here we are! What about you? What do you do here?

Kiko:
I work in Human Resources, so we have something in common! 
Are you enjoying it here so far?

Rick:
Hey guys! Sorry to interrupt you. I just thought I'd introduce myself. 
I'm Rick!

Arshad:
I guess you're new here, too! I'm Ash, nice to meet you. This is Kiko. 
We just found out we're both in HR!

Kiko:
Yeah! What a coincidence!

Rick:
The pleasure's all mine, Ash, Kiko.

Kiko:
What do you do for a living, Rick?

Rick:
Well, I'm not in HR like you guys! Haha. 
I'm actually a Bid Manager at a construction firm down in Deansgate.

Kiko:
Sounds interesting. What does that involve?

Rick:
You know, I ask myself that question every day, and it's my job! [laughs]

Arshad:
[laughs] Yeah I'm the same. Do you also have family here?

Rick:
No, mine are all back in the States. My kids are doing really well in 
school and it would be too disruptive to move them out here right now.

Arshad:
True. What about you, Kiko? Do you have family in the country, too?

Kiko:
Uh [laughs], no, I moved to England by myself and I-

Arshad:
You know, my wife is looking to make new friends. 
I'll introduce you both to her.

What information did all three residents share about themselves?
job or studies, country of origin
Kiko didn't talk about her family.

Why didn't Kiko share much about herself? 🤔
Kiko's also not used to talking about her personal life to people she just met.

Also, in Kiko's culture, they wait until the speaker has finished 
before they start talking. 
However, Ash overlapped or interrupted the speaker few times 
as he grew up around people who do that.

There's a pause (silence) after Rick speaks before Kiko starts talking 
as she wanted to be sure he was finished first.

Before giving your name, you can say... "I (just) thought I'd introduce myself."
A response to "Nice to meet you" can be... "The pleasure's all mine."

I just thought I'd introduce myself.

How does Rick respond when Ash says, "Nice to meet you"?
The pleasure's all mine.

What do you... do for a living?
Have you... been here long?
Are you... enjoying it here so far?

Are you enjoying it here so far?
Have you been here long?

Kiko
Hi, Nicola. You're from Marketing, right? 
I thought I'd introduce myself. I'm Kiko from HR.

Nicola
Oh, yes! So you're Kiko! I've heard so much about you. 
Pleased to finally meet you! Are you enjoying it here so far?

Kiko
The pleasure's all mine. Oh, definitely. 
My team are just so lovely and supportive. Have you been here long?

Nicola
Almost a year, though I just moved home. Do you know where Salford Quays is?

Kiko
What a coincidence! I live in Quay Point. Have you heard of it?

Nicola
You're, like, a five-minute walk from me! We should get lunch sometime.

Kiko

I'd love that. It would be good to meet people as I came here by myself. 
My family are all back in Japan. What about you?

Nicola

I'm the same. It's just me and my cat here, though my family are just 
two hours away by car. I'm visiting them this weekend for a "hikeathon".

-------------------
2. Asking for clarification - Ask for repetition and clarification

Can I check that I understand?
I just want to make sure.
"I just want to check." / "I just want to make sure."
"I just want to check/make sure." / 
"Can I just check/make sure I understand?"
You can choose either "check" or "make sure" in your sentence to clarify something.

he words that mean "to confirm".
check, make sure

More ways to clarify! ➕
We can also use sentence stems (phrases that go at the start of 
a sentence) to check understanding. 

These aren't complete sentences, but you can say them before you 
reformulate (repeat what you heard but in your own way).

Check out the examples below.
So what you're saying is we're making less profit.
In other words, you're not ready!
Just to clarify, burro is not short for burrito?

"In other words..."
So what you're saying is...
Just to c l a r i f y ...

Tell me in your own words! 💬
When you reformulate, try to avoid repeating what the person told you. 
Instead, use synonyms or a different grammar structure.

Have a look at the examples below and note how to reformulate 
what you were told. ⬇️

what you hear
"Our expenses are up but our sales aren't."
"I just need 15 more minutes."
"You just ordered a donkey in Spanish!"

how you reformulate it
So what you're saying is we're making less profit.
In other words, you're not ready!
Just to clarify, burro is not short for burrito?

"Maddie said, "I'll have any non-meat dish." 
Just to clarify, she only wants the vegetarian option?"
I used different words to express Maddie's idea, for example, 
"vegetarian" instead of "non-meat".

"Tom told me, "The discount doesn't apply to us." 
Can I make sure I understand? Do we have to pay full price?"
I used different words to express Tom's idea.
"We have to pay full price" reformulates Tom's statement: 
"The discount does not apply to us."

The deadline's passed. - I just want to make sure. Is it too late to apply?
No steak, please. We're pescatarians. - Just to clarify, you only eat seafood?

"Sorry guys, they didn't pick us this week."
So what you're saying is we have to apply again next week.

Reformulate this sentence: 
"I'm postponing my announcement until the end of the week."
n other words, we need to wait until Friday to hear your news?

Damini calling Tanya from IT to access a file
***************************************
Damini: Any chance you could unblock it for me?

Tanya: To fix that, you need to get authorisation from Willow.

Damini: Sorry, I didn't catch that. Viro?

Tanya: No, W. I ..

Damini: Wi-Willow? Oh, Willow Taylor from HR?

Tanya: That's right. And give her your Piff JX code.

Damini: Uhh... Can you say that again for me? A Biff?

Tanya: Piff with a P. It's your unique PIN number.

Damini: Right. Just to make sure, is it the one with 5 spaces?

Tanya: Can you repeat that, please?

Damini: Like... 5 numbers or letters?

Tanya: Correct.

Damini: OK. I don't remember it. Sorry.

Tanya: That's fine. I can request a new one to be sent to you. 
What's your surname?

Damini: Furo.
.
Tanya: Sorry, what was that again?

Damini: Furo. F.U.R.O.

Tanya: Thank you. One moment please.

What word in both sentences did Damini ask Tanya to repeat?
Willow, Piff

I didn't catch that.
You can also say, "Sorry, I didn't catch that."

What was that again ?

say that again, repeat that
"Can you say that again?" / "Can you repeat that?"

Sorry, can you repeat that please?
Adding sorry and please can make your request more polite, 
which is common in spoken English!

Take a look at the examples below to see how you can use these words 
when asking for repetition.

(Sorry), can you say that again (please)?
(Sorry), what was that again?
(Sorry), can I check I understand?

Sorry, I didn't catch that.

Choose a question to ask the person to repeat themselves.
Can you say that again, please?
Sorry, can you repeat that, please|you please repeat that?

clarifying information - "So what you're saying is..."
asking for repetition - "Sorry, I didn't catch that."

In other words, you're not comfortable talking about your family in the beginning.

"Right, just to make sure, is it the one with 5 spaces?"
Tanya replied, "Can you repeat that, please?"

-----------------------
3. Collaborating with others - Learn language for working together

to put our heads together
We should put our heads together and come up with a plan.

"Let's put our heads together."
You can use the phrase "to put our heads together" 
when working with others to come up with ideas.

to pitch in
They'll all pitch in to help me redecorate the house.

"You're welcome to pitch in towards Maddie's birthday present."
"To pitch in towards" means to contribute a small amount of money 
to pay for Maddie's birthday present.

What do you suggest?
If renting a car is too expensive, then what do you suggest?

Does anyone want to pitch in? Rob, what do you suggest?

to get on with something
I'll let you get on with the project.

Who or what do you get on with? 🤔
The phrase to get on has two different meanings depending on the word that follows.
to get on with + something → to begin/continue a task 👩🏻‍💻
to get on with + someone (or to get along with someone) 
→ to have a positive relationship with a person 👯‍♀️

Have a look at the examples below.

to get on with something
You know what you're doing, so I'll let you get on with it.

to get on/along with someone
I don't think Ana gets on with Luke as they hardly speak!

to get on with something - to begin/continue doing something
to put our heads together - to come with ideas or solutions together

I need to get on with completing this essay as the deadline's tonight!
Let's get on with the task.

Well done! Let's keep going! 💪
Here's a recap of the meaning of the four expressions that you may hear in a meeting. 🗒

By the way, do you know a word that means "to give each person a specific job to do"?

Let's see if that word you're thinking of comes up in the next exercise. ➡️

to put our heads together
to come up with ideas or solutions together

to pitch in 
to contribute (your ideas) to the group

to get on with something 
to begin/continue doing something

"Let me delegate tasks to each person. I'm going to assign each of you two cases."
The speaker is going to give each person a specific job to do.

to delegate
I suggest you delegate the task to your team to save time.

he Bid team come up with ideas for their presentation.
*************************
Rick: Alright, let's put our heads together. 
Who wants to pitch in with an idea? Anyone?... Yeah, Nigel, go ahead!

Nigel: I should probably start with the budget. 
Taxpayers will want to know how much this redevelopment will cost them.

Katie: I’m not sure if people want to hear about the finances at the start.

Rick: What do you suggest, Katie?

Katie: I dunno [don’t know]… just something to grab their attention.

Rick: Okay. Does anyone else have any thoughts? Wendy, what’s your view on this?

Wendy: Hmm… Maybe at the start–

Nigel: [interrupts] But they’re going to have lots of questions about costs. 
I’d say we answer them first-

Rick: [interrupts] Yeah, thank you, Nigel, but can we let Wendy finish, first?

Nigel: Opps, sorry!

Wendy: I agree with Katie. I can start with the building design. 
Then as Nigel said, we can break down the cost to build it.

Nigel: That works! What if we end with the positive impact 
a modern hospital would have on the city?

Rick: I think we all agree that Wendy will start with the design, 
then Nigel will talk about the costs. Katie, what about you?

Katie: I can show my research on how our proposal could solve 
some problems hospital staff are facing.

Rick: Awesome! Katie will present the solutions and I’ll end with the 
positive impact on the community. Do you have anything else to share, guys?

Which person wanted to talk about finance and the cost of the project?
Nigel

Wendy - the building design
Katie - solving current problems

1) Wendy presents the designs. 
2) Nigel presents the costs. 
3) Katie presents the solutions.

Rick stopped Nigel from interrupting Wendy. 
He then opened the floor with Wendy so she could finish speaking.

Does anyone have any ideas?
What's your view on this ?

Does anyone have any thoughts?
Who wants to pitch in?
What do you all think about this?
Do you have anything to share with the group, Mehdi?
Do you have anything to add?
Katya, what are your thoughts on this?

What's your view on this?
Do you have anything to share?
What about you?

What do you all think if I delegate the research part to you and I plan the report?

***********************
4. Dealing with conflict - Learn language for handling conflict

Nicola: We're preparing Hawk Pro Fitness' protein soda TV advertisement to go out next-

Eli: [interrupts] Oh, come on, Nicola, just TV? 
This is product is clearly for the gym generation. 
We need to focus more on social media and getting fitness influencers to promote it.

Nicola: Eli, fitness consumers still watch TV! Plus it's our biggest revenue.

Eli: I’m not saying we shouldn’t do TV, but we need to think bigger. 
I mean... I can talk to the social media team if they know 
any celebrities who can-

Nicola: [interrupts] Right, thanks, Eli for your idea, 
but we can't just stop filming TV commercials. 
I need you on board as we're a small team. Unless, 
you think the idea is so bad that you don’t want to work in this team anymore?

Eli: Why do you think I don't want to do a TV commercial? [pauses] 
You know what? Forget I even said anything. 
How do you want me to plan the TV thing?

Nicola misunderstood what the other person said.
Nicola thought Eli didn't want to make a commercial, 
but he was suggesting social media and TV.

Eli stops the argument/misunderstanding by asking Nicola how she can plan the TV project.

Eli's email to Nicola after the conflict
Dear Nicola,

I hope this email finds you well. I wanted to apologise for my stubborn 
attitude in the meeting yesterday and clarify the point I was making.

I can see why you thought that I was against advertising on TV, 
but that's actually not true. I support a lot of ideas you raised yesterday. 
When I said that we needed to advertise more on new social media apps, 
what I meant was to expand, not replace our current marketing strategy. 
I just think we need to reach out to younger consumers at some point 
in the campaign.

Anyway, I hope to clear this misunderstanding because 
I really enjoy working with you. 
I will definitely be a team player in producing Hawk Pro Fitness' 
TV commerical.

Warm Regards,
Eli

Eli apologised to Nicola and clarified what he miscommunicated.

Read the second paragraph again that starts with, 
"I can see why you thought that..." and choose the best summary.
Eli clarified that he wants to include both TV and social media advertising.

"I can see why you thought that I was against advertising on TV."
This phrase means, "I realise why you misunderstood."

One way to show that you realise when someone has misunderstood is to say...
I can see why you thought (that) ...
I can see why you thought I was annoyed, but I was just tired.

Hawk Pro Fitness is a sports brand, but I can see why you thought that 
it was an airline from the logo!

That's not actually true.
That's not actually true. I told you to come at 7pm, not at 8pm!

That's not actually true.
The word "actually" can be placed almost anywhere in this sentence, 
e.g. "That's not true, actually."

When I said... what I actually meant was…
When I said I'm almost ready, what I actually meant was I needed another 15 minutes!

When I said "a bit of sugar", what I actually meant was 1 kilo.
I can see why you thought I was annoyed, but I was just tired.

Nicola:
Hi Eli. Thanks for meeting with me. I read your email and I can see there’s been a misunderstanding between us.

Eli:
Yes, and I’m sorry I didn’t explain myself well. TV advertising is great. I’m not against it. I just wanted you to include social media. It seemed like you didn’t like that idea, though.

Nicola:
Oh, that’s not actually true. I love the idea, but we don’t have time for it right now. I wanted to tell you to wait until next month, but it sounded to me at the time that you wanted to talk to fitness influencers right away!

Eli:
Really? What did you hear me say?

Nicola:
You said you wanted to talk to the social media team and find some celebrities.

Eli:
I can see why you thought that, but I can wait! I wasn’t sure if you even wanted me to work on social media. You made it clear that I either do a TV ad or leave the team, and I got scared!

Nicola:
Oh, no, no, no, Eli! Please don’t take that the wrong way! When I said, "Unless you don't want to work in this team" what I actually meant was that we needed you on board, but only if you want to!

Eli:
Oh, phew! I’m glad we cleared the air.

both
Both Nicola and Eli realised they were not clear with each other 
and used this meeting to repair misunderstandings.

"When I said, 'Unless you don't want to work in this team', what I 
actually meant was that we needed you on board, but only if you want to!"

Before, Eli had misunderstood Nicola and thought she didn't want him on the team anymore.

"Oh, that’s not actually true. I love the idea, but we don’t have time 
for it right now. I wanted to tell you to wait until next month."

I didn't explain myself well.
I hope we're all clear but let me know if I didn't explain myself well.

What did you hear me say?

to take it the wrong way
Please don't take it the wrong way, but I couldn't finish your dessert.
I want to share a joke with you, but I hope you don't take it 
the wrong way and get offended.

Please don't take it the wrong way.
What did you hear me say?
I didn't explain myself well.
When I said that what I actually meant was something else.
That's not actually true.
I can see why you thought that.

-----------------------------
5. Note taking - Make notes on the main points of a meeting

an objective
The objective of this meeting is to share the results of our research.

Which of these is an objective of a meeting?
to share solutions for increasing sales

an agenda
I'll email you an agenda for tomorrow's meeting.

What's the agenda of this afternoon's meeting?

An agenda or an agenda item?
What's the difference between an agenda and an agenda item?

An item is a more specific topic or point, so an agenda item is one topic 
or issue that will be discussed.

An agenda is a complete list of meeting items including the objective, 
agenda items and action points. 

an action item
I'll add an action item: "Chris to find us a new supplier by 5pm."

"Eli is going to film the TV commercial by next Friday."
This is an example of an action item.

This is a future action (after the meeting) that Eli needs to do 
by a specific date.

an objective - the main goal/purpose of the meeting
an agenda - a list of topics/issues for the meeting
an action - a task to complete after the meeting

Kiko's meeting agenda
Kiko hopes her team can come up with ways to improve the company's 
benefits package (extras for employees in addition to salary, 
such as bonuses or holidays).

On the next screen, you'll see Kiko's agenda. Notice the blank sections. 
That's where we're going to make our notes while listening!

If you can, have a pen and paper handy so that you can copy the agenda 
before we attend the meeting! 🖊📃

Meeting Agenda
Attendees: Kiko Sanada, Willow Taylor, Mike Drake, James Hutton
Objective: To discuss improving the company benefits package
Agenda 1: Brainstorm ideas for new types of benefits

How many attendees are there for this meeting in total?
four

Which agenda item will be completed first?
coming up with new benefits
Agenda 1: brainstorm ideas for new types of benefits

How many benefits minimum does the team need to choose for Agenda 2?
two
Agenda 2: agree on two new benefits to add

Kiko will create action items for the team to complete after the meeting.

any other business
Before we end the meeting, is there any other business?

We will finish by addressing any other business.
The phrase "any other business" is usually abbreviated to "AOB" on agenda items.

Kiko's meeting
*********************
Kiko: Thanks so much for coming today. 
By the end of the meeting we will come up with a new and improved 
benefits package for our staff. Let’s begin by brainstorming ideas. 
Who wants to pitch in?

Mike: I know! Staff discounts for gyms and fitness classes.

Willow: Paternity leave. We offer maternity leave, but what about for the fathers?

James: Train and bus fares are increasing, 
but we can offer a pre-tax discount on travel expenses.

Mike: Or allow more flexibility to work from home, like three days a week.

Kiko: Those could reduce commuting costs. 
We can certainly look into offering travel discounts. Any other ideas?

Willow: Umm… how about… unlimited PTO?

[Mike and James gasp]

Kiko: Sorry, I didn’t catch that. What’s PTO?

Willow: PTO stands for “personal time off”. 
Unlimited means they can have as many days' holiday as they want, 
if the manager approves it.

James: I don’t think I could trust my staff with that. 
I’ll never see them again!

[all laugh]

Kiko: What do you suggest then?

James: You know what’ll keep them in the office? Free breakfast or lunch!

Kiko: OK, now we’ll turn to Agenda Item 2, 
which is to agree on at least two new benefits. 
Each of you please write down each idea in order from best to worst.

[after 1 minute]

Kiko: Thanks guys, so I can see our top two are: free meals at the office...

James: Yesss!

Kiko: I’m glad you’re excited about that, James!...and cheaper travel fares. 
I think that we need to consider paternity leave, too, 
so we'll include that one. Let’s finish with the action plan. 
Willow, can you set up the transport discount by Friday? 
James, can you contact suppliers for prices on breakfast and lunch? 
Let me know by next Wednesday what you find. 
Mike, are you free at 3 o’clock to help me with a paternity leave proposal?

Mike: Yep. I'll book a room. Thanks Kiko! That was a great meeting!

Kiko: Oh, thank you all! Before we end the meeting, is there any other business?

All: No, nope.
******

The team came up with six new ideas to improve the benefits package.
gym and fitness class discounts

the phrase that means "time off work for new fathers"
paternity leave

What does "unlimited PTO" mean?
as many days' holiday as you like

You know what’ll keep them in the office? Free breakfast or lunch.

Which benefits did the team choose to add?
free meals and cheaper travel

Which benefit did Kiko decide to add to the package?
paternity leave


Willow - Set up the transport discount.
James - Find out prices for free meals.
Mike - Create a paternity leave proposal.

Willow's deadline is this Friday, and Mike and Kiko are meeting today at 3pm.

Mike will work on the paternity proposal with Kiko.

Nobody had any other business to share.

Which phrase did Kiko use to introduce the objective?
By the end of the meeting...
Let's begin with the first agenda item.

Now we'll turn to agenda item two.
Notice how she says "agenda item" like "agenda ritem". 
This is common in spoken English.

Let's finish with the action plan.

Let's finish... with the final item.
Now we'll turn... to the next item.

-------------------------
6. Talking about your responsibilities - 
Read about discussing death - including material from The Economist

Here's a tip!
In this lesson, we'll learn how to summarise a text and 
we'll  follow these three steps:

1️⃣ learn the characteristics of a good summary
2️⃣ read and analyse an article
3️⃣ summarise an article and send your summary to the Busuu Community

What is a text summary? Basically, it's using your own words to tell 
the key ideas from the text. It sounds simple, 
but don't underestimate the importance of a good summary strategy. 
Let me walk you through four steps that will help you write an effective summary.

Step 1 Identify key ideas
 As you read a text, ask yourself "What is the text mainly about?", and 
 "What is the main point that the author is making?". 
 Typically, the structure of a text will help you identify the key ideas. 
 The title should be helpful as well as the first and last sentences 
 in a passage that tend to introduce and conclude the main topic. 
 Plus, watch out for the repetition of ideas. The author may tend 
 to repeat ideas that they consider central to the article. 

Step 2 Identify supporting details
 Supporting details describe and explain the main idea. 
 Very often they include examples of the main point or arguments 
 that support it. As you read and look for supporting details 
 ask yourself "what information helps me understand better the key idea?"

Step 3 Use the key words
Identify the key words in the article, so the words that would convey
 the main idea of the article and use them in your summary. 
 Key words will be important for the clarity of your summary. 

Step 4 Use your own words 
While it's OK to include the key topic vocabulary in your summary, 
you should steer clear of the infamous "copy-paste" strategy. 
Use your own words to tell the same story. 
Plus, feel free to simplify the language, remove complex clauses, and 
break longer sentences into shorter ones.

We hope that these 4 quick steps help you feel confident 
about summarising any text your read in English.

1. Identify key ideas 
2. Identify supporting details 
3. Use key words 
4. Use your own words

To identify what the key idea is ask yourself "What is the text mainly about?"

What elements can help you identify the main idea?
1. title 2. first sentence 3. last sentence 4. repeated ideas

Supporting details help you understand the main idea better.

What is and what isn't a good idea when writing a summary?
Good idea - use key words from the text
Bad idea - copy the sentences from the text

Here's a tip!
Let's use the information you've just learned about summarising 
to summarise the text. You didn't see that coming, did you? 😉

What is the key idea presented in the text?
A good summary requires a strategy.

What are the supporting ideas presented in the text?
A good strategy means identifying key ideas and supporting ideas, 
as well as using key words and your own words as much as possible.

At the beginning of the video, the speaker argues that a good summary 
requires a strategy to follow. And further on, she examines 4 steps 
that she believes would be helpful to summarise a text effectively. 
She stresses the importance of identifying main ideas as well as 
supporting ideas and points out why key words and your own words 
should be used as much as possible. 

The key idea of the text is...
The key idea of the text is that a good summary requires a good strategy.

"A key idea" is the same as "a main idea".

She stresses the importance of...
She stresses the importance of identifying main ideas.
The leaflet stresses the importance of wearing a face mask inside the building.

At the beginning, the author argues that...
At the beginning of the video, the speaker argues that 
a good summary requires a strategy to follow.

Further on, the author examines why...
Further on she examines 4 steps that would be helpful to summarise 
a text effectively.

In the final section, the author points out why...
In the final section, the author points out why you should use 
your own words as much as possible.

in the final section
at the beginning
further on

Here's a tip!
In this part of the lesson, we'll read a text from The Economist and 
summarise it using the strategies and the language we've already learned. 

The title of the article is "Death education: finding the words".
What is the article likely to be about?
expressing condolences

Death education: finding the words
“This is not a good letter, Charlie. But I still feel too sad to write a good one.
” When Ernest Hemingway learned that Charles Scribner, his publisher, 
had died, he wrote a letter of condolence to Scribner’s son. 
The note was characteristically direct. 
“It does not do any good to talk about it and there is nothing to say 
that makes it any easier,” he said. 
Those who share Hemingway’s feelings on such correspondence 
might appreciate “The Art of the Condolence Letter”, 
a workshop organised by Amy Cunningham, who teaches about death, 
taking place this afternoon in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn. 
Ms Cunningham will draw on the writings of Emily Dickinson, 
Queen Victoria and Marcel Proust, among others. 
Of course a letter can only do so much to relieve the pain of losing a loved one. 
“For ills so immeasurable,” Thomas Jefferson wrote to a mourning 
John Adams, “time and silence are the only medicine.”

© 2019 The Economist Newspaper Limited. All rights reserved. 
Published under licence. The original article can be found on:

What is the main idea of the text?
Many struggle to find the right words to talk about death.

“This is not a good letter, Charlie. But I still feel too sad to write a good one.”
Even great writers lacked words to talk about death.

Amy Cunningham organises a workshop.
There are ways to learn to talk about death.

Ms Cunningham will draw on the writings of Emily Dickinson.
We can learn to talk about death from famous figures.

death, condolence

The key idea of the article is that talking about death is something 
that many struggle with.

The author argues that even Ernest Hemingway lacked words to 
eloquently express his sympathy.

Further on, the author suggests that workshops, like the one organised 
by Amy Cunningham, can teach us to talk about death.

a phrase we've learned in this lesson to indicate what happens 
at the end of the article.
In the final section, the reader learns that the topic has been tackled 
by many writers.

Death education: finding the words
Suggested summary
The key idea of the article is that talking about death is something 
that many struggle with. The author argues that even Ernest Hemingway 
lacked words to eloquently express his sympathy.
Further on, the author suggests that workshops, like the one organised 
by Amy Cunningham, can teach us to talk about death. 
In the final section, the reader learns that the topic has already been 
tackled by many writers and their works are a great learning resource. 

It's your turn!
On the next screen, you are going to react to the text from the previous exercise.  
Type or record your answer and send it to the Busuu Community, 
where other English speakers will give you feedback. You can do it! ⭐

Try using the language we've looked at in this lesson.

Also, remember to:

👉identify the key ideas
👉identify the supporting points
👉use the key words from the text
👉use your own words

Complete a conversation exercise and get feedback from our Community
Use the information you've learned about summarising texts to make 
your summary of "Death education: finding the words". 
Use your own words as much as possible.

------------------
7. Common swear words in English
Express frustration using swear words and their alternatives

🚨 This lesson contains explicit language 🚨

According to Business Insider, Americans use from 80 to 90 curse words every day. 🤯

Make no mistake, we're not encouraging you to become a potty mouth in English.

We just really want you to understand how swearing affects communication.
a potty month
a person who uses bad language 

Listen to Kelly. What is the main objective of the new office initiative she mentions?
Swear Jar Project

What is the main objective of the swear jar?
to create a considerate office culture

What the hell?
What the hell?! Is the internet down again?!

using a soft swear word.
What the heck?
What the heck? Where did the file go?

Priyanka is more likely to have to put some money into the swear jar.
"What the heck!" is a soft alternative for "What the hell!".

a soft alternative of "hell"
What the heck? Where did the file go?

using a strong swear word
fucking
Why is this fucking coffee machine not working?

using a mild swear word
bloody
The coffee is bloody disgusting.

Anna speaks British English.
"Bloody" is mainly used in British English.

using a soft swear word.
freaking
Aargh! The coffee is freaking hot!

The speaker who says "fucking" should put some money in the swear jar.

Daniel is angry but he doesn't want to sound too harsh.
The coffee is freaking hot!


Strong or mild? 👿👼🏽

The most common offensive swear words have their softer, often similar sounding, alternatives.

They still express frustration but are not vulgar.

strong 🔥🔥🔥           mild 🔥🔥               soft 🔥
                       hell                    heck
fucking                bloody 🇬🇧               freaking
shit                   crap                    shoot
                       damn                    darn

He's using a strong swear word.
Shit!
Shit! I'm going to miss the meeting.
"Shit" is a strong-sounding swear word.
Didier should put some money into the swear jar.

using a mild swear word.
Crap!
Oh crap! I have two overlapping meetings. How is it possible?

using a soft swear word
Shoot!
Shoot! I forgot to send invites to the meeting.

How offensive are these terms?
Shit! - very offensive
Crap! - a bit offensive
Shoot! - not offensive

the very offensive words.
shit, fucking

using a mild swear word.
Damn!
Damn, it's hot in here!

using a soft swear word
Darn!
Darn, it's cold in here!

Damn, it's hot in here.
























































































































































































































































































































































































