Films & TV

1. Talking about TV - Recommend films and TV shows

Our friends Adriano and Sophie use the word "film", which is common for 
speakers of British English. 🇬🇧

"Movie" is more common for speakers of American English. 🇺🇸 🍿

to binge on
I actually binged on a few films last weekend.

I actually binged a few films last weekend.

To binge...
We use "to binge..." when we do an activity excessively.

"Bingeing..." is often associated with consuming things quickly, 
such as films, food and alcohol. 🍿 🍔 🍷

We often use this verb with "on".

I often binge on chocolate when I'm watching TV.
He doesn't drink much alcohol during the week, but he often binges at the weekend.

I plan to binge on a few movies this weekend.
She wants to watch a lot of movies this weekend.
If you "binge" something, you consume a lot of it.

I'll give you a highlight of the film without spoiling too much.

"a highlight" of a film - an especially good part of the film
"to spoil" a film - to tell someone too much of the story

I'll give you a highlight of the film without spoiling too much.
Is it a must watch?

When someone says that a film is a "must watch", 
it means that in their opinion it's a very good film. 👍

That film's a must watch!
She is recommending a film she thinks is good.
If we describe a film as a "must watch" then we think it is good, 
and we would recommend it.

It's got a good storyline actually.

Which of the following words refers to what happens in a film?
a storyline

a must watch - a really good film
a highlight - a really good part of a film

"consume a lot" - binge

We're about to watch a video where Adriano tells Sophie about a film, 
which he says is a "must watch". 🍿

to binge on films - to watch lots of films in a short time
a highlight - a particularly good part of the film
to spoil a film - to tell someone the story of the film before they watch it
a must watch - a film you think is very good and would recommend
a storyline - what happens in the film

Adriano liked the film he is describing.
"To binge on films" means to watch a lot of them in a short space of time.

Adriano tells Sophie something particularly good about the film, 
without spoiling the story.

Sophie is asking Adriano if he recommends watching the film.
The "storyline" refers to what happens in the film.
Just to give you a bit of a highlight...

Ah this weekend, given the weather wasn’t that great, I actually binged on a few films.

Watch the video.

Is it a must watch? 🍿

Sophie:
So, what did you do this weekend?

Adriano:
Ah this weekend, given the weather wasn’t 
that great, I actually binged on a few films.

Sophie:
What did you watch?

Adriano:
I watched a film called The King of 
Staten Island, I don't know if you've heard about it.

Sophie:
Is that with the guy who's from Saturday 
Night Live? I can’t remember his name, but...

Adriano:
Pete Davidson, like a tall guy.

Sophie:
Yeah, so is it a comedy?

Adriano:
Yeah, I mean, put it that way, 
it can be a bit of a drama, it also can be 
a bit of a comedy and he’s a very puzzled person, 
asking himself so many questions and, 
just to give you a bit of an highlight, 
without really spoiling too much, err, 
you actually start the film with Pete 
Davidson just driving along the motorway. 
He's actually driving, he’s got, I don’t 
know if you know the artist called Kid Cudi. 
He’s got rap music on...

Sophie:
Yep.

Adriano:
He’s listening to him really loud, and I’m 
like, "Yeah that’s really good. Loud music, 
he’s probably going somewhere." Uh, so yeah, 
it's- it's a comedy, a bit depressing. It's 
an autobiography, apparently. It represents 
75% of what he actually went through.

Sophie:
OK, so is it a must watch?

Adriano:
Definitely, um, it’s got a good story line 
actually, and it makes you think maybe “was 
I that troubled youngster back in the days” 
where I went through a lot of these things 
where this guy went through. And that was 
actually, there’s a lot of positive notes 
from a “depressing film” if you want to call 
it like that, yeah.

Sophie:
Well very often, the real, you know, the 
real stories are the most interesting ones.

VOCABULARY

to binge

I'll give you a highlight of the film without spoiling too much.

Is it a must watch?

It's got a good storyline actually.



--------------------------
2. Narrative tenses - Combine different tenses to tell stories

"...you actually start the film with Pete Davidson just driving along the motorway..."

When we tell an anecdote or describe the events in a book or film, 
we often use the present simple ("he plays") and the present continuous 
("he is driving", "he is listening") to make the action seem more engaging or dramatic. 🎭

Pete Davidson plays a puzzled character in the film.
He's driving and listening to rap music.

"A highlight of the film is when she's walking along the road 
and she meets this man, who she then falls in love with."

She is describing the events of a film using present simple 
and present continuous to make it more dramatic.

"He’s got rap music on, he’s listening to it really loud..."

Narrative tenses
Now, let's look at the narrative tenses we use to tell stories in the past. 
These tenses are often used to describe events in books. 📚

Past simple
"It started to rain."
a main event in the past

Past continuous
"I was making lunch when it started to rain."
an event that happened at the same time as the main event in the past

Past perfect
"I had been for a run when it started to rain."
an event that occurred before the main event in the past

I was making lunch when it started to rain.
The text in bold describes something Elisa was doing at the time it started to rain.
* We use the past continuous ("I was making lunch") for events happening 
at the same time as another past event.

It started to rain, but I'd already been for a run.
The text in bold describes something that Elisa did before it started to rain.
* We can use the past perfect to describe an event that occurred 
before another event in the past.

"I'd already been for a run." - an event before a main event in the past
"It started to rain." - a main event in the past
"I was making lunch."
an event happening at the same time as an event in the past

I was walking down the street when I saw my brother. 
He had been to the supermarket.

I saw my brother. (past simple) - the main event in the past

Which one is the event happening at the same time as the main event?
I was walking down the street. (past continuous)

Which one is an event before a main event in the past?
He had been to the supermarket. (past perfect)

Look at the past tenses and how we use them:

Present simple & continuous
"He's got rap music on, he's listening to it really loud."
describing events in films

Past simple
"It started to rain."
a main event in the past

Past continuous
"I was making lunch when it started to rain."
an event that happened at the same time as the main event in the past

Past perfect
"I had been for a run when it started to rain."
an event that occurred before the main event in the past

The film starts with a man who's working at his desk. He looks really unhappy.

I was listening to music while I cleaned the kitchen.

an event that occurred before the main event.
She arrived home very tired, as she had been out all day.

an event that occurred before the main event.
We were nervous because we'd never been on a plane before.

It's a must watch! I won't spoil the storyline too much, 
but it's about a man who lives in Australia, 
who is trying to find out about his family back in India.

It's about a man who lives in Australia.

He 's trying|is trying|tries to find out about his family back in India.

The film is based on a true story. 
The man was studying at university when he decided to look for his family. 
He hadn't tried to make contact with them before. 
He wrote a book and the film was made afterwards.

The man was studying at university when he decided to look for his family.

He decided to look for his family - he hadn't tried|had not tried to make 
contact with them before.

The film starts with a man who's working at his desk. He looks really unhappy.

---------------------

3. Discussing the horror genre - Describe what you like about a film

The atmosphere is very eerie 👀

Sophie:
And, er, if. you're interested. 
I don’t know if you like horror, 
I love horror movies and stuff like that, 
but I watched The Haunting of Bly Manor ... 
Bly, Blee? I can’t pron- I don’t know 
exactly how to pronounce it but it’s quite, 
it’s quite good. So It’s a series like nine 
or ten episodes, I can’t remember, and I 
watched it in like two days max. And..

Adriano:
Oh, wow!

Sophie:
It’s quite a slow pace, but it’s quite...the 
atmosphere is very eerie and it’s...the 
actors actually are, they are quite amazing, 
they are two kids. Obviously when you have 
kids in an old manor, it’s very creepy, you 
don’t need much more to make it super creepy. 
It’s uh, the scenery and the image, the filming, 
everything is actually quite well done. 
But it’s slow-paced, just to, uh, 
don’t expect you know any, er, it’s not like 
jump scare. Don't expect any, er, super 
bloody things or slasher, gory stuff. 
It’s more elegant.

Adriano:
Ah it’s more elegant. 
But I started watching the season 1, 
but I think I stopped about 4 or 5 episodes 
in to that season, I think.

Sophie:
Ah, really, why? I loved, I loved the first season.

Adriano:
I mean earlier you mentioned slow pace. 
I dunno I’m that kinda person that really 
likes something like frightening that needs 
to get me like out of the blue, like really 
like something like really jumpy or something.

Sophie:
I mean if you’re, if you want something 
a bit more, you know like jump scare, 
you can just go and have like a classic 
Scream or, Nightmare on Elm Street.

Adriano:
Yeah so, yeah, good old Freddie Kruger, 
I mean, yes, he got me scared when 
I was young I think, yeah If you go to sleep 
you might killed. Who knows? Hahaha

Sophie:
Well, that, when you think about it, 
it’s the most brilliant idea ever. 
It’s something - you need to sleep, 
you can’t not sleep so it’s the perfect idea. 
I watched it when I was way too young. 
I managed to convince my grandmother 
to watch it and I didn’t sleep for quite 
a few days after that.

Do you like scary films? 😱
In this lesson we are going to watch a video of Adriano and Sophie discussing 
horror films and series. Take a look at the words below to help you understand the video:

slow-paced (adj) - when the story (in a film or book) takes a while to develop
eerie (adj) - strange, creepy
gory (adj) - involving violence and blood
a jump scare (n) - a sudden frightening moment
a slasher film (n) - a very violent type of film
out of the blue (adv) - completely unexpected

The atmosphere is very eerie 👀

slow-paced - developing gradually
eerie - strange and creepy
gory - violent and bloody

We use a little horizontal sign called a hyphen ("-") to combine an adjective 
and verb when they come before a noun.

If they come after the noun, there is no hyphen.

I hate slow-paced horror movies.
This film is slow paced.

She thinks it's a well-made series.
She thinks that the series is well made.

I hate slow-paced horror movies.

"a sudden frightening moment". - jump scare
Don't expect any, er, super bloody things or slasher, gory stuff.

I’m that kinda person that really likes something like frightening 
that needs to get me like out of the blue.

It came out of the blue!
If something happens "out of the blue", it happens very unexpectedly.

This originally came from the phrase "like a bolt out of the blue", meaning 
that on a blue-sky day ☀️you wouldn't expect a lightning bolt! ⚡

The idea for the film came to me out of the blue!
= The idea for the film came unexpectedly.

unexpectedly - out of the blue

Which type of film contains a lot of violence.
a slasher film

What do you look for in a film?
We're now going to look at how Sophie and Adriano express what they like and 
don't like in horror films.

Listen out for the words we've just learned!
slow-paced (adj) - when the story (in a film or book) takes a while to develop
eerie (adj) - strange, creepy
gory (adj) - involving violence and blood
a jump scare (n) - a sudden frightening moment
a slasher film (n) - a very violent type of film
out of the blue (adv) - completely unexpected

If something happens "out of the blue", it happens unexpectedly.

“If you want something a bit more, you know like jump scare, you can just go 
and have like a classic ‘Scream’ or...”

Sophie is recommending films that contain sudden frightening moments.

What does Alec want in the series he is watching?
lots of sudden frightening moments

I want something really eerie!
I'm the kind of person that likes slasher movies.

I love horror films with an eerie atmosphere.

It's a very slow-paced series, I want something with more jump scares!

I want something gory!
I'm the kind of person that hates slow-paced horror films.



--------------------
4. Reading a TV review - Learn how to structure a review

Welcome to this reading lesson 🤓
We're going to read Sophie's review of the horror series she's been watching recently.

Before we do this, we will review some of the language we've studied 
in the last few lessons. Let's go! 💪

He "binged on" a series, which means that he watched a lot of it in a very short time.

The film is about a group of college friends living in New York.

We use the present simple and present continuous to make the action seem more engaging or dramatic.

Please don't spoil the storyline for me!

What is the "highlight" of a film?
a particularly good part

a must-watch film - a film that is highly recommended
an eerie film - a strange or creepy film
a slow-paced film - a film with a story that develops slowly

I'm the kind of person that loves watching horror.

If you want something gory, this film is not for you - it's more elegant.
I didn't feel scared when I was watching the film.

Review - The Haunting of Bly Manor 👻

Last week I binged on a new season of a series called "The Haunting of Bly Manor". 
I had watched the first season and loved it, and so I was expecting to enjoy 
this second season too.

I won’t spoil anything, but the storyline follows an American woman who moves 
to the UK to look after two young children. The children live in a huge manor 
in the countryside, so there is a very eerie atmosphere from the start. Whilst 
looking after the children, the woman starts to notice some very strange 
things happening around the house.

This was quite a slow-paced series, and there weren’t very many jump scares. 
For me, that’s not a problem, as I’m the kind of person who likes to watch 
different types of horror. But if you want something like a slasher film, this 
series is not for you.

When I was watching it, I didn’t feel as scared as I had felt when watching 
the first series. For me, the highlight of the series was the performance of 
the two children - they were very creepy!

Which of the following elements did Sophie include in her review?
the storyline, a highlight, her opinion

Writing a review
When talking about films or series you've seen, we often include three elements:

the storyline
"the storyline follows..." / "the film is about..."

a highlight
"for me, the highlight was..."

our opinion
"I enjoyed..." / "I'm the kind of person who likes..."

"This was quite a slow-paced series, and there weren’t very many jump scares. 
For me that’s not a problem, as I’m the kind of person who likes to watch 
different types of horror."
Sophie's review includes her personal opinion on the series.

"I binged on a new horror series." - a main event in the past
"I'd watched the first season." - an event before the main event
"I was expecting to enjoy this season too." - happening at the same time as the main event

What tense does Sophie use to describe what the series is about?
present simple ("follows", "moves")

Whilst looking after the children, the woman starts to notice some very 
strange things happening around the house.

I’m the kind of person who likes to watch different types of horror.
If you want something like a slasher film, this series is not for you.

When I was watching it, I didn’t feel as scared as I had felt when watching the first series.

I didn’t feel as scared as I had felt when watching the first series.

-----------------------
 5. Developing fluency - Write a review

Review - The Godfather 🕶️
I recently watched a film called "The Godfather" for the first time. I know 
it's a popular film, but I'd never watched it before last week! It's about the 
Mafia criminal organisation, and follows a very powerful family in New York.

The storyline is quite complex, but it's not a slow-paced film. Some scenes 
came completely out of the blue and really shocked me! If you want something 
exciting and unexpected, "The Godfather" is definitely a must watch.

I know it's a popular film, but I'd never watched it before last week!
The storyline is quite complex, but it's not a slow-paced film.

Some scenes came completely out of the blue.
The Godfather is definitely a must watch.

Review - Grey's Anatomy 👩‍⚕️

I binged on the latest season of the medical drama Grey's Anatomy last week. 
I'm not the kind of person who can watch a series slowly! 
I'd waited a long time for the new season.

It's about surgeons in Seattle, their jobs and their lives. 
Sometimes there are slow-paced storylines, but the highlight for me is getting 
to know the different characters - there are lots of them!
I binged on the latest season.
I'm not the kind of person who can watch a series slowly.

"gradually developing story." - slow-paced, storylines

noun, "a particulary good part"
The highlight for me is getting to know the different characters.

What have you watched recently?
On the next screen, you'll be asked to review a film or TV series 
you've recently watched. Below are some writing tips! ✍️

Type or record your answer, then, send it to the Busuu Community 
where other English speakers will give you feedback. You can do it! ⭐

the storyline
"the storyline follows..." / "the film is about..."

a highlight
"for me, the highlight was..."

our opinion
"I enjoyed/disliked..."

Just to give you a bit of a highlight...
I'm the kind of person that hates slow-paced horror films.


































































































































































































































