Literature
1. Adverbial phrases - Learn about confusing adverbs and adverbial phrases

Here's a tip!
In this lesson, we'll learn how to add more information about the way 
something is done - this could be its time, place, frequency or even your 
opinion on it! 

This kind of information can be added using adverbs (one word, often 
finishing in "-ly") and adverbial phrases (more than one word).

Adverb
She speaks quickly.

Adverbial phrase
He asks me questions all the time. 

Unfortunately, I can't accept your invitation.
I'll talk to you in a minute.
Unfortunately, in, a, minute

Once upon a time, there was an incredibly lazy boy.

once upon a time- a long time ago

"Once upon a time, there was an incredibly lazy boy."

Once upon a time...
Shall we read the story about the incredibly lazy boy? Guess what... 
it starts with "once upon a time". 😉
First, read through it carefully and focus on understanding the storyline.

An incredibly lazy boy
Part 1
Once upon a time, there was an incredibly lazy boy. He hardly moved. 
He just sat comfortably on the sofa with one leg gently touching the floor. 
Occasionally, he opened his mouth slightly to ask his parents for 
something to drink. Actually, he tried not to do it too often because 
then, annoyingly, he would need to go to the toilet, and it was 
definitely the kind of thing he considered exhausting.

One day his parents left him alone at home for the entire afternoon, and 
he found himself incredibly thirsty. He resisted the urge to drink with 
great determination until the point that he couldn’t put off the decision 
any longer and bravely made his way to the fridge.
“I can do it,” he desperately whispered to himself as he slowly stood up.

The boy was so lazy that he spent his days on the sofa. 
He felt so tired that he even avoided going to the toilet. One day 
he was so thirsty that he decided to stand up and get water from the fridge.

An incredibly lazy boy
Part 2
“Surprisingly, the fridge seems further away than usual,” 
he angrily muttered under his breath.
After 10 minutes, as he reached the kitchen he quickly grabbed the 
wonderfully cool bottle of water from the fridge. 
As soon as he took his first sip, he started feeling amazingly energised. 
A feeling he hadn’t experienced in years. He felt even better after he 
walked to the toilet and back, ran around the garden, and 
climbed to the top of a tree. 
“I’m the king of the world”, he shouted at the top of his voice. 
And suddenly he realised that the less we do, the less we want to do. 
Actually, only by using energy can we create more energy. 

This experience got him to try new types of movement such as running in the garden. 
He discovered that he had more energy when he was physically active.

Adverbs everywhere!
The story is full of adverbs and adverbial phrases. Let's look at them more closely. 

He just sat comfortably on the sofa with one leg gently touching the floor.

Occasionally (Sometimes), he opened his mouth slightly (a little bit) 
to ask his parents for something to drink.

It was definitely the kind of thing he considered exhausting.

One day his parents left him alone at home for the entire afternoon, 
and he found himself 1. ......... thirsty. 
He resisted the urge to drink with great 2. .......... until the point 
that he couldn’t put off the decision any longer and bravely made his way 
to the fridge.
“I can do it,” he 3. .......... whispered to himself as he slowly stood up. 

One day his parents left him alone at home for the entire afternoon, 
and he found himself incredibly thirsty.

He resisted the urge to drink with great determination until the point that 
he couldn’t put off the decision any longer and bravely made his way to the fridge.

“I can do it,” he desperately whispered to himself as he slowly stood up.

furiously - angrily

“I’m the king of the world”, he shouted at the top of his voice.
''At the top of your voice" means "very loudly".

So far you've learned...
When you want to add more information about when something happened, how 
it happened or what you thought of it, use adverbs and adverbial phrases.

Feel free to start with the ones you've just learned.
how something happened - "comfortably", "quickly" 
when something happened - "one day", "as soon as"
your personal thoughts - "annoyingly", "surprisingly"
how often - "occasionally"

Confusing adverbs and adverbial phrases
The meanings of some adverbs and adverbial phrases can be quite confusing.
Do you know what the differences between these pairs are? 
👉 "hard"  or "hardly"
👉 "late" or "lately"
👉  "near" or "nearly"
👉 "currently" or "actually"
👉  "in the end" or "at the end" 

hard
She worked very hard to get promoted.

hardly
They hardly speak to each other.

He hardly moved.
"Hardly" implies that he almost didn't move at all.

late
The meeting started late.

lately
I've been feeling anxious lately.

She showed up late for dinner.

near
There's a bus stop near my flat.

nearly
Her fingers nearly got caught in the closing doors.

The car nearly crashed. - The car almost crashed.
The car crashed near here. - The car crashed not far from here.

currently
Currently, I'm living on my own.

actually
The cake was actually for me, not for you.

Actually, only by spending energy can we create more energy.
The truth is that only by spending energy one can create more energy.

in the end
In the end she turned down the job offer.

at the end
At the end of the story, the boy understood the importance of movement.

She raised her hand at the end of the lesson.

nearly - almost
lately - recently
hardly - almost never

means "at the moment".
This watch is currently available only in the US.

the adverbial phrase so that it means "finally".
I wanted to start my own business, but in the end I didn't.

Final recap
You've worked hard and as usual, at the end of the lesson 
let's quickly recap the most important points. 
Have a look at the notes below, just in case you've nearly forgotten 
the differences between these adverbs and adverbial phrases. 😉

hard  - with a lot of effort
hardly - almost never
late - not on time
lately - recently
near - close
nearly - almost
currently - at the moment
actually - in fact
in the end  - finally
at the end  - during the end

An incredibly lazy boy
Once upon a time there was an incredibly lazy boy. 
He hardly moved. He just sat comfortably on the sofa with one leg gently 
touching the floor. Occasionally, he opened his mouth slightly to ask 
his parents for something to drink. Actually, he tried not to do 
it too often because then, annoyingly, he would need to go to the toilet, 
and it was definitely the kind of thing he considered exhausting.

One day his parents left him alone at home for the entire afternoon, and 
he found himself incredibly thirsty. He resisted the urge to drink with 
great determination until the point that he couldn’t put off the decision 
any longer and bravely made his way to the fridge.

“I can do it,” he desperately whispered to himself as he slowly stood up.

“Surprisingly, the fridge seems further away than usual,” 
he angrily muttered under his breath.

After 10 minutes, as he reached the kitchen he quickly grabbed 
the wonderfully cool bottle of water from the fridge. 

As soon as he took his first sip, he started feeling amazingly energised. 
A feeling he hadn’t experienced in years. He felt even better after he 
walked to the toilet and back, ran around the garden, and climbed to the top of a tree. 

“I’m the king of the world”, he shouted at the top of his voice. 

And suddenly he realised that the less we do, the less we want to do. 
Actually, only by using energy can we create more energy.

--------------------
2. Past perfect continuous - Use the past perfect continuous

I had worked in a bank before I started university.
We use the past perfect ("I had worked") to talk about something 
that happened before another event in the past.


She had visited Peru before she went last summer.
You hadn't been dating for long when you got engaged.
"You hadn't been dating for long" and "you got engaged" are 
two events that occurred in the past.

 Which three verbs indicate a past action that continued until 
 another past action happened?
She had been waiting for hours when the bus finally arrived.
has been waiting

Here's a tip! 💡
Generally, we can use the past perfect ("I had studied") and 
the past perfect continuous ("I had been studying") to talk about events 
that occurred before another time or event in the past.
However, if you want to distinguish between a past action that was 
in progress leading up to another past action, you can use the past 
perfect continuous tense to show this.
You can also use this tense to emphasise the duration of a past event.

They'd been hiking all day when they reached the summit.
A past action was in progress leading up to another past action.

We'd been working hard on the project for over a month.
A past action was in progress for a duration of time.
 
The system had been operating just fine before it got hacked.
This sentence uses the past perfect continuous tense 
(had + been + present participle "operating").

I had read the original novel. - Past perfect
They had been hiking for hours. - Past perfect continuous

"We had already been discussing the project before the meeting started." 
Select the correct option:
We were discussing the project before the meeting.

They'd been ignoring my calls all day yesterday.

"I had been exercising at home for a year when I finally joined a gym." 
Select the correct option:
I joined a gym after exercising at home for a year.

Great job so far! 💪
We've looked at how to put together a sentence using the past perfect continuous.

Did you know that we can use time stamps (e.g. before, when, until, for) 
to introduce another past action or to specify the duration of an event?

Let's have a look at some examples!
I had been jogging for an hour when I injured my knee.
Alex had been waiting all day before he decided to cancel the meeting.
The program had been working well until February.

Tina had been managing the team until she got promoted.
Had you been waiting for a long time ?

Mary had realised her mistake before it was too late.
The verb "to realise" is a mental state so we use the past perfect tense.

He had been making food all day and the kitchen was a mess.
The verb "to make" could be considered a continuous action 
in this case with the time stamp "all day".

Selfies had existed long before social media made them a trend.
The verb "to exist" is a stative verb that is generally not used 
in the continuous aspect.

Kyle had been drinking soya milk the entire time.
The verb "to drink" could be considered a continuous action 
in this case with the time stamp "the entire time".

an action that was in progress leading up to another action in the past
Nick had been working from home for the past six months.

We had been surfing for three hours by the time it got dark.
Had Paul been taking care of his back before the accident?
The ground was still wet as it had been raining throughout the night.
Clearly, I had not been paying enough attention to the instructor.
Anna had been going to the gym regularly.
Chris had been driving for several hours and was sleepy.
Wendy hadn't been drinking enough water and felt very thirsty.

--------------------------
3. Verb patterns in creative texts - Focus on verbs that are followed by "-ing" and "to" + infinitive

What happens when you have two verbs in a sentence?
In this lesson, we're going to read some creative writing and 
we'll focus on how verbs interact with each other.

Sometimes they just don't react and are happily next to each other 
without any change like in "I should leave as soon as possible".
However, that's the case mainly for modal verbs (verbs such as "should", 
"can", "must", "might" or "will".)

Here are two ways that verbs interact:

adding "-ing" to the second verb
I recommend ordering a cheese board

adding "to" before the second verb in the infinitive
I want to take a course on creative writing.

to pretend to
She pretended not to see me.

to manage to
I managed to complete the report on time.

to appear to
She appears to feel very upset.

"Pretend", "manage", "appear" are similar in that they are followed 
by "to" + infinitive.

can't afford to
We can't afford to buy a new car now.

to promise to
She promised to help me with my homework.

to regret
I regret sending this message to my ex-boyfriend.

How is "regret" different from "can't afford" and "promise"?
It is followed by "-ing".

Here's a tip!
If you're looking for a pattern to figure out what verbs make 
the second verb take "-ing" or "to" + infinitive, you'll be disappointed 
to learn there are no rules - these verbs need to be learned. 😰
But hey, it's not all bad news as you've already learned quite a lot of them. 👍🏽

"-ing"
regret

"to" + infinitive
can't afford
promise
pretend
manage
appear

I managed to have a conversation in Japanese.

Let's see verbs in context !
Reading is a great way to see verbs in action and notice how they 
interact with each other. Now, you'll read a short piece of creative writing.

As you read, think about the type of creative writing it is. 🕵🏼
Vocabulary 

to brew (v) - add boiling water to make a drink 
a gaze (n) - a long look
engrossed (adj) - engaged, absorbed
to cherish (v) - protect and care for

Purple unicorns
Janine was sitting at the kitchen table drinking a cup of freshly brewed coffee. 
She pretended to be reading the newspaper because she didn’t want her 
daughter Molly to notice her and be distracted by her gaze. 
Molly appeared to be so happily engrossed in her game that Janine 
promised to cherish moments like these and never interrupt them.

Molly was sitting near the sofa playing with two purple unicorns she 
managed to convince Janine last night she "really, really needed". 
Even though these two purple unicorns are not something that Janine 
could afford to buy, given that she was three months behind on her rent, 
she didn’t regret getting them for Molly.

What kind of creative writing is it?
a novel

Why did Janine decide to not interrupt her daughter's game?
She enjoyed watching her play.

How did Janine feel about her daughter's new toys?
She was happy for her daughter to have them.

Notice the verbs in the text!
Now that you've understood the text, let's analyse the verbs.

She pretended to be reading the newspaper.
Molly appeared to be so happy that Janine promised to cherish these moments.
She managed to convince Janine last night she "really, really needed" the unicorns.
These two purple unicorns are not something that Janine could afford to buy.

The story continues!
Now listen to the next paragraph of the story and focus on the answers 
to these questions:

What was Janine thinking about as she was watching her daughter?
What happened to Janine the week after? 

What was Janine thinking about as she was watching her daughter?
her daughter's future

What happened to Janine the week after?
She was found dead in her flat.

At that very moment, she enjoyed watching her so much that nothing else mattered.

She imagined her daughter growing older.

the verbs that are followed by "-ing"
magine, regret, enjoy

This is what you've learned!
Here are the verb patterns that you've learned in this lesson so far. 

"-ing"
imagine
regret
enjoy

''to'' + infinitive
manage 
pretend 
promise 
appear 
can('t) afford 
appear
want 

How did Janine feel about her daughter's new toys?
She was happy for her daughter to have them.

Keep learning!
In this part of the lesson, we'll look at another piece of creative 
writing and you'll learn two more verbs that are followed by 
"to" + infinitive and three more verbs that are followed by "-ing".

to tend to
People tend to need less sleep as they get older.

to fail to
The new tax policies failed to satisfy business owners.

The verbs "tend" and "fail" are followed by "to" + infinitive.

to suggest
The boss suggested making improvements to the project.

to risk
You risk losing all your money if you invest in bitcoin.

to consider
I'm considering going vegan.

The verbs "consider", "suggest" and "risk" are followed by "-ing".
to suggest/to consider - going
to tend/ to fail - to go

Keep on learning!
Have a look at another piece of creative writing. As you read it, 
concentrate on the question below.
What kind of creative writing is it? 

What kind of creative writing is it?
I could consider getting surgery

Kelly: The ultrasound and biopsy confirmed our worry. 
The tumor is extremely large, at least twenty-five pounds.

Hugh: Oh, God.

Kelly: But it’s completely benign, there’s no sign of cancer at all. 
However, we suggest having surgery first thing in the morning.

Hugh: Surgery? I’ll never risk getting a scar in surgery. 
Anyway, if it’s benign it can’t kill me, right?

Kelly: We don't tend to take these matters lightly. 
And if we fail to act now, the situation may take a turn for the worse.

Hugh: I could consider getting surgery, but first I would like a second opinion.

What kind of creative writing is it?
a TV script

What kind of TV show is the script for?
a medical drama

How does the patient feel about the doctor's recommendation?
distrustful

We don't tend to take these matters lightly.
We normally take these issues seriously.

I would like a second opinion.
I would like to talk to another doctor.

the same meaning as 
"If we fail to act now, the situation may take a turn for the worse."
If we don't do anything now, the situation will probably get worse.

We suggest having surgery first thing in the morning.
I’ll never risk getting a scar in surgery.
We don't tend to take these matters lightly.
If we fail to act now, the situation may take a turn for the worse.
I could consider getting surgery but first I would like a second opinion.

by "-ing"
risk, consider, imagine, recommend

🏅 You've learned a total of fifteen verbs! 🏅
Congratulations! You've learned plenty of verbs that go with 
either "-ing" or "to" + infinitive.
Take a look at the table below to better remember all of them.

"-ing"
imagine
regret 
enjoy 
risk
consider
recommend

''to'' + infinitive
manage
pretend 
promise 
appear 
can('t) afford 
appear
want 
tend 
fail

---------------------
4. Exploring literary characters - React to different characters

Listen to Frankie. What is her job?
a cartoonist

What did she feel insecure about?
her storylines

I mainly create my work for newspapers and magazines, 
even though plenty of my fellow artists have moved to the film industry. 
I guess I enjoy seeing my characters on paper. 
While I've always been proud of my drawing skills, 
I used to doubt my storytelling abilities all the time, 
but now I'm genuinely happy with how my stories develop and 
how complex my characters are.

Vocabulary
fellow (adj) artists - artists from the same industry
genuinely (adj) - honestly

What are they like?
Now, you'll see some characters from Frankie's comic strip. 
What are they like?

tactful
Mia is very tactful around other people.

cautious
Mia is cautious about difficult decisions.

Mia is tactful and cautious.
"Cautious" people avoid risks.

stubborn
Joe is so stubborn that it's impossible to convince him to change his mind.

mean
Joe is mean to people who disagree with him.

Joe is stubborn and mean.
"Stubborn" people don't change their opinions easily.

talkative
Dylan's so talkative that you can hear him participate in every conversation.

thoughtful
Dylan's thoughtful and he always considers other people's emotions and needs.

Dylan is talkative and thoughtful.
"Thoughtful" people carefully consider things.

Joe
Get lost! I want to be alone
Mia
You look upset today.
Dylan
And then he told me that he would call me but he..
Joe
Just stop talking, will you?
Dylan
Joe is acting really weired.
Mia
I don't wanna talk about Joe behind his back.

Joe is being mean to Mia.
Joe is annoyed by Dylan because he's too talkative.
Mia is tactful about Joe's mean behaviour.

Joe doesn't resonate too much with me even though it can be funny 
how stubborn he gets. In general, I'm not fond of rude characters. 
Unlike Mia, who's confident and respectful. 
She was really inspired by my sister who's just like her. 
I see myself reflected in Dylan. 
I also think of myself as considerate and 
I'm known for chattering away with my friends. 

Who does Frankie identify with?
Dylan

What word used in this sentence means "rude"?
mean

"respectful" - tactful
thoughtful

Personality adjectives
Here's a list of personality adjectives you've learned in this lesson.  
You see how thoughtful we are. 😉

tactful  - respectful, careful not to upset other people
cautious  - careful, avoiding risks
stubborn - not willing to change
mean - rude, impolite
talkative - someone who talks a lot
thoughtful -  considerate, considering other people's emotions and needs

Look at my beautiful big, old dog.
opinion, size, age

It's a square, blue, Japanese painting.
shape, colour, origin

Adjectives come in a specific order!
If you're using more than one adjective in a sentence, 
you have to place them in the correct order. 

There are eight categories to take into account 😱, 
but the good news is that you're very unlikely to use eight adjectives 
at once in a sentence.

1. opinion - a beautiful table
2. size - a small table
3. age - an antique table
4. shape - a round table
5. colour - a black table
6. origin - an Italian table
7. material / texture - a wooden table
8. purpose - a coffee table

I've got this beautiful, small, antique, round, black, Italian, 
wooden, coffee table.
Adjectives follow a specific order: 
opinion, size, age, shape, colour, origin, material and purpose.

opinion adjectives - interesting, beautiful

size adjectives - short, enormous, tall

triangular cake - shape
leather shoes - material
sleeping bag - purpose

It's a fascinating , new comic book.
It's a fascinating , thin , new comic book.

fascinating - opinion
thin - size
new - age

I'm cautious about investing my money in unknown, small, American company.

she was wearing such a ugly short cotton T-shirt.
Oh, is this the rectangular, red, metal phone case I always wanted?
I only eat out in expensive, modern, Italian restaurants.
I  need a new , steel frying pan.
This is a delicious , flat , French pancake.

Final recap
So it's been an interesting, short,  grammar lesson. 😉

Before you move on to another great, new, English lesson, 
let us remind you that adjectives in English come in a specific order. 

1. opinion
expensive shoes

2. size
small shoes

3. shape
flat shoes

4. age
new shoes

5. colour
brown shoes

6. origin 
Italian shoes

7. material
leather shoes

8. purpose
walking shoes

----------------
5. Order of adjectives - Learn how to connect adjectives

The order of adjectives matters
Imagine you want to talk about your dog.
Would you say "I have a beautiful, big, old dog" OR 
"I have an old, big, beautiful dog"?
In this part of the lesson, 
we'll help you solve the mystery of the order of English adjectives. 🕵️‍♀️

Look at my beautiful big, old dog.
opinion, size, age

It's a square, blue, Japanese painting.
shape, colour, origin

Adjectives come in a specific order!
*************************************
If you're using more than one adjective in a sentence, 
you have to place them in the correct order. 
There are eight categories to take into account 😱,
but the good news is that you're very unlikely to use eight adjectives at once in a sentence.

1. opinion
a beautiful table

2. size
a small table

3. age
an antique table

4. shape
a round table

5. colour
a black table

6. origin
an Italian table

7. material / texture
a wooden table

8. purpose
a coffee table

I've got this beautiful, small, antique, round, black, 
Italian, wooden, coffee table.

Adjectives follow a specific order: opinion, size, age, shape, 
colour, origin, material and purpose.

the opinion adjectives - interesting, beautiful
the size adjectives - short, enormous, tall

triangular cake - shape
leather shoes - material
sleeping bag - purpose

It's a fascinating , new comic book.
It's a fascinating , thin , new comic book.

fascinating - opinion
thin - size
new - age

I'm cautious about investing my money in unknown, small, American company.

She was wearing such a ugly short cotton T-shirt.
Oh, is this the rectangular, red, metal phone case I always wanted?
I only eat out in expensive, modern, Italian restaurants.
I need a new , steel frying pan.
This is a delicious , flat , French pancake.

------------------------
6. Developing fluency - Respond to a text

Imagine being trapped in a smelly, tiny room surrounded 
by people you have nothing in common with except these dirty, brick walls. 
There are days we all pretend to be asleep so that 
we don’t have to engage in any conversations. We hardly speak anyway.
Instead, we tend to think a lot. 

And thinking is much worse than speaking. 
Thinking is like an extremely loud buzzing in your head. 
The kind of buzzing you fail to silence every time you try. 
In the end, you just stop trying because the trying becomes nearly 
as exhausting as the buzzing.
Regrets? I regret getting out of bed that day. 

Where is the speaker likely to be?
a prison

What does the speaker find most difficult to deal with?
her thoughts

Imagine being trapped in a smelly, tiny room.

We have nothing in common except these dirty , brick walls.
There are days we all pretend to be asleep.
Instead, we tend to think a lot.

a word that means "almost never".
We hardly speak anyway.

Thinking is like an extremely loud buzzing in your head.
It's the kind of buzzing you fail to silence every time you try.

In the end, you just stop trying.
In the end, the trying becomes nearly as exhausting as the buzzing.

I think all of us to a certain extent can identify with the protagonist.
Haven't we all at some point been trapped in a situation? 
It's also a common human experience to have to sit with our own, 
often persistent, thoughts.
If the rest of the book is as relatable as the extract, 
I'd definitely want to read it. 

Hiroshi has a positive opinion of the text.

Hiroshi thinks that the protagonist is easy to identify with. 
The extract deals with difficult experiences and it's relatable.

the sentence to say that Hiroshi identifies with the protagonist.
Hiroshi sees a lot of similarities between him and the protagonist.

Hiroshi thinks that the protagonist's experience is relatable.
He can think of a similar experience in his life.

It seems that this book sets out to explore the human psyche 
in extreme situations and, to be honest, these topics do not resonate with me. 
It's not that I don't find them important, 
I just look for books that make me feel optimistic and hopeful 
about life and the text failed to do that, I'm afraid.

Tamar has a negative opinion of the text.
The main topics in the story don't resonate with Tamar.
She expects literature to make her feel positive emotions.

Watch out for "make"!
When you use "make" with another verb, the second verb doesn't change.
So "make" behaves just like "can", "should" or "might". 

It makes me feel hopeful. 👍
It makes me to feel hopeful. ⛔
It makes me feeling hopeful. ⛔

This book makes me cry every time I read it.

The main topics in the story don't resonate with Tamar.
The topics are not similar to what she thinks and experiences.

Trapped
Imagine being trapped in a smelly, tiny room surrounded by people 
you have nothing in common with except these dirty, brick walls. 
There are days we all pretend to be asleep so that 
we don’t have to engage in any conversations. 
We hardly speak anyway. Instead, we tend to think a lot. 

And thinking is much worse than speaking. 
Thinking is like an extremely loud buzzing in your head. 
The kind of buzzing you fail to silence every time you try. 
In the end, you just stop trying because the trying becomes nearly 
as exhausting as the buzzing.
Regrets? I regret getting out of bed that day. 

The verbs "consider", "suggest" and "risk" are followed by -ing.
I could consider getting surgery but first I would like a second opinion.

If we fail to act now, the situation may take a turn for the worse.

a word that means "at the moment".
This watch is currently available only in the US.
She raised her hand at the end of the lesson.
She showed up late for dinner.





















































































































































































































































































































