Technology

1. Making deductions - Make deductions about the past

Who remembers modal verbs?
We use modal verbs (words like "must", "might", "could") to express 
necessity, possibility or probability.

We can use modal verbs to talk about how sure we are that something is 
true or not, and make deductions about the past and present.

must - indicates certainty (+)
can't - indicates certainty (-)
could, might, may - indicates possibility, but with some doubt

"It must be true!" - I am sure it's true.
"It could be true..." - There's a possibility that it's true.
"It can't be true!" - I am sure it's not true.

Rik can't be online now, he's in Australia and it's 3am there.
Using the modal verb "can't" indicates that the speaker is sure his statement is not true.

My notifications must be turned off, I didn't know about the email.

Which sentence expresses the least certainty?
My card details could be incorrect.

My payment must have failed. I haven't received a confirmation email.

They might have hacked my account; I don't recognise the recent transactions.

She can't have lost her card, she used it this morning.

Making deductions in the past
When we want to make deductions about past events, we use the following 
construction:<br><br>"can't/must/might/could" + "have" + past participle 
("failed", "hacked", "lost")

My payment must have failed = I'm sure that my payment failed.
They might have hacked his account. = It's possible that they hacked his account.
She can't have lost her card. = I'm sure that she hasn't lost her card.

The update can't have failed.
She is making a comment about an update that happened in the past ("can't have failed").

The new update might have caused issues. - deduction about the past
The new update might be causing issues. - deduction about the present

the deduction about a past event.
You must have restarted your computer.

"My laptop might have broken." - It's possible that my laptop's broken.
"My laptop can't have broken." - I'm sure my laptop isn't broken.
"My laptop must have broken." - I'm sure my laptop's broken.

Rephrase this into a deduction about a past action: "She could forget her password."
She could have forgotten her password.

What does Carmen think about the booking site she used?
She is sure that it wasn't secure.

That booking site can't have been very secure!

Good job so far! 💪
We've learned about expressing certainty and possibility about present and past events. 
Let's quickly review the constructions, before we practise making deductions ourselves!

Joseph could be online now. 
Joseph could have been online last night.
expresses possibility about Joseph's activity online

The store can't close at midnight.
The store can't have closed at midnight. 
expresses certainty about the closing time of the online store

She must be able to pay on the app. 
She must have been able to pay on the app. 
expresses certainty about app payment options

Select the words that express certainty.
can't, must

The store might have closed, no one is answering the phone.

express certainty in the present .
Greg must be at home, that's his car.

Elio: I think I might've accidentally suspended my online banking account. 
I can't log in anymore, it says "account cannot be located".
Rachel: Hmm, that's odd. Your username might be incorrect. 
Could you have changed it recently and forgotten?
Elio: No, I can't have changed it recently, 
I haven't used the app for a couple of months.
Rachel: You must've typed the details incorrectly. 
If you haven't used it for months, it's likely you haven't changed anything.
Elio: But someone could've hacked the account and changed the details.
Rachel: Surely not! Banks usually contact customers when there is suspicious activity.
Elio: You never know, this hacker might be very good at imitating me! 
I'll give the bank a call just to be sure.

Did you notice?
When speaking, we often merge the modal verb and "have" together to create 
"must've", "could've", "might've". We put more emphasis on the modal verb, 
which is why we produce the weak form of "have" when speaking. 🗣️

I might've accidentally suspended my online banking account.
You must've typed the details incorrectly.
Someone could've hacked the account.

Elio thinks it's possible he suspended his account.

Rephrase this into a deduction about a present action: 
"I might have suspended my online banking account."
I might suspend my online banking account.

Your username might be|could be incorrect.
Could you have changed your username recently?
No, I can't have|cannot have changed it recently.
You can't have typed the details correctly.

Rephrase this into a deduction about a past action: 
"But someone could hack my account."
But someone could have hacked|could've hacked my account.

You never know, this hacker might be very good at imitating me!

-----------------------------
2. Learning about data privacy - Watch a video about privacy online

"If you have location tracking turned on, Facebook collects an enormous 
amount of location data, about where you’re going, where you came from, 
where you live..."
"Location tracking" gives Facebook information about the places you go.

location tracking
If you have location tracking turned on, Facebook collects 
an enormous amount of location data.

They use this information to target ads at you.

to target someone
Social media companies use location tracking and personal data 
to target users with specific advertisements.

to use location tracking - to collect information about places visited
to target - to select someone as an object of attention

to classify
Facebook uses nearly 100 different data points to classify your interests and activities.

to determine
Facebook uses many different signals of what it knows about you 
to determine who else you might be connected to.

Facebook uses data to classify your interests, whilst also determining who else you might know.

to classify - to divide into groups
to determine - to conclude or establish

"Facebook collects an enormous amount of location data, about where you’re going, 
where you came from, where you live, where you work, what restaurants and 
businesses you tend to go to."

*If you "tend to" do something, it means you do it regularly.
True

to tend to do something
Facebook knows all about the places you tend to visit, and 
the type of TV shows you tend to watch.

I assume Facebook can track which restaurants I tend to go to.

a transaction
If you buy a burrito with your credit card, Facebook can know about that transaction.

controversial
One of the most controversial parts of Facebook data collection is 
a feature called “People you may know”.

the correct definition for "transaction".
the act of buying or selling something

If something causes much discussion, it's controversial

Did you notice?
Both the words "transaction" and "controversial" contain the sound 
"-sh" (/ʃ/) even though they have different spellings.

The combination of t + i and s + i can sound like "sh" (/ʃ/) 
when followed by another vowel. Practise saying these words! 💬

Facebook knows about your transactions.
Facebook has some controversial features.

What do we mean by the phrase "to take notes on a video"?
to write the important things you hear in the video

Taking notes ✍️
When we take notes, we write down what we think are the important parts of 
something we are reading or listening to. 💡 We take notes for various 
reasons: we might be listening to a lecture at university, in an important 
meeting at work, or studying at home.

Generally, the notes we take are short and concise to make it easier for 
us to remember the main ideas. We can use "bullet points", like below: 

Facebook:
- uses location tracking
- targets users with adverts
- knows about our transactions

Your notes should be short and concise and contain the main ideas you hear in the video.

Let's practise taking notes 💪
We are going to watch a video about Facebook. 
Practise taking notes on the topics below. 
We will answer some questions on these topics:

1. What information Facebook knows about us
2. How Facebook uses location tracking
3. Facebook and transactions
4. A controversial feature of Facebook
5. What Facebook can predict about users

Facebook uses your location to find people you might know, 
as well as information about your likes and dislikes.

How does Facebook use transactions to target users with ads?
through credit cards linked to Facebook

Complete the sentence with a noun which means "the act of buying or selling something".
Facebook can know about that transaction, and match it with the credit 
card that you’ve added to Facebook or Facebook messenger.

Which of the following data does "People you may know" NOT use?
users' birthdays

* an adjective which means "causing much discussion".
One of the most controversial parts of Facebook data collection is 
a feature called “People you may know”.

According to the video, Facebook uses your data to predict...
your shopping habits, political activity and health.

Send us your notes! ✍️
On the next screen, you'll be asked to send the notes you made on the 
video to the Busuu Community where other English speakers will give you 
feedback. You can do it! ⭐

Send your notes on the video to the community – 
What information does Facebook know about us? How does Facebook use 
location tracking? How does Facebook track transactions? 
What is a controversial feature of Facebook? 
What can Facebook predict about users?

-------------------
3. Digital advertising - Talk about digital marketing

targeted advertising
Targeted advertising focuses on the specific traits, interests, 
and preferences of a consumer.

a target market
Parents are an important target market for baby products.

A group of consumers who a product is designed for is called a target market.

a slogan
The company spent two weeks trying to come up with a catchy slogan for the new campaign.

a brand
This shop sells a variety of beer brands.
This website has loads of different brands to choose from.

What do we call a memorable phrase used in advertising?
slogan

a product launch
My company has developed a new software and is planning 
a major product launch in the second quarter.

an advertising campaign
We should be more present on social media if we want 
our advertising campaign to be effective.

an advertising agency
I write television and radio commercials for an important corporate advertising agency.

advertising agency - business dedicated to promoting a product
advertising campaign - a strategy to increase sales
product launch - bringing a new thing to market

Opinion 1
Marina 💬
I see how it has become the most obvious choice for many advertising agencies. 
It pretty much guarantees a successful campaign and  brings in more sales and higher revenues. 
For consumers like me, it means seeing ads tailored to my needs and interests.

What is "it"? targeted advertising
How does Marina feel about targeted advertising? - She sees advantages.

"personalised" - tailored
"people who buy' - consumers

And I also feel it helps smaller companies to have a successful product 
launch because many customers will be willing to click on their ads if 
they’re relevant to them.

Bessie says that many companies are not transparent about 
where they get the data and it raises privacy concerns.

Many companies are not transparent about where they get the data 
about their target markets and it raises privacy concerns.

We trade our personal information in exchange for free search engines and 
mailing services, so that the very same services can expose us to unique 
content and slogans we would respond to.

Targeted advertising
Marina 💬
I see how it has become the most obvious choice for many advertising agencies. 
It pretty much guarantees a successful campaign and brings in more sales 
and higher revenues. For consumers like me, it means seeing ads tailored 
to my needs and interests.

Colin 💬
Personalised advertising makes it possible to get a great deal on things 
that you care about. And I also feel it helps smaller companies to have a 
successful product launch because many customers will be willing to click 
on their ads if they’re relevant to them.

Bessie 💬
Many companies are not transparent about where they get the data about 
their target markets and it raises privacy concerns. We trade our personal 
information in exchange for free search engines and mailing services, so 
that the very same services can expose us to unique content and slogans we 
would respond to.

benefits for unknown brands - Colin
suspicious practices - Bessie
a trend in advertising - Marina

Marina mentions advertising. 
Colin talks about smaller companies. 
Bessie raises privacy concerns.

Some people believe targeted advertising violates their privacy.

To other people targeted advertising is a way to tailor ads to their needs.
A group of consumers who a product is designed for is called a target market.

---------------------
4. Marketing vocabulary - Understand a conversation about digital marketing

pop-up ads / pop-ups
So many people hate pop-up ads but they're very effective in online marketing.

a lead
"A lead" is any person who shows interest in a company's product or service.

to promote
Online ads are a great way to promote a new service.

We decided to promote our product through pop-up advertising.

advertisers
why customers might not like certain brands

What is the meaning of "leads" in this sentence?
potential customers

What is Nina saying?
She's most worried when the customers are not well identified.

He's surprised that many businesses don’t use social media and think it’s OK.

By repeatedly sending the same ad you can easily generate new leads.

the terms strongly associated with digital marketing
pop-up, leads, targeting

The company's target market is people who work from home and have children.

The software allows you to block pop-up ads if you get annoyed by them.

Nina
To me, the biggest red light is when the targeting is off. 
You’ll get negative reactions from your audience when you’re 
communicating to someone who has no interest in your product.

Otis
It’s definitely an issue and another thing I see especially with 
digital advertising is a lack of variation. Just sending the same ad over 
and over again. This is how you can easily put off your audience.

Nina
It’s also true for very intrusive advertising such as 
pop-up ads that take up your entire screen.

Otis
Also, much to my surprise there are still many businesses 
that think they can get away with avoiding social media.

Nina
Definitely, it’s something that we see in our agency all the time. 
Engaging with your users on social media will help you promote your 
business online. It’s an essential part of turning leads into customers.

------------------------
5. Making comparisons - Learn how to make a more precise comparison

Advanced language to compare ideas
In this lesson, we'll continue exploring the world of advertising and 
particularly how it's changed over the years. We'll also help you to be m
more specific and show off your advanced language when you compare ideas. 

Useful structures for comparison you'll learn in this lesson: 
👉 far more/less ... than
👉 way more/less ... than
👉 slightly more/less ... than 
👉 not quite as ... as
👉 not nearly as ... as
👉 by far the most ...

way more expensive than
Digital advertising is becoming way more expensive than it used to be.

far more effective than
Targeted advertising is far more effective than mass marketing.

"Digital advertising is becoming way more expensive than it used to be." 
Digital advertising is much more expensive now.

slightly more annoying than
I find long commercial breaks slightly more annoying than pop-ups.

by far the most recognisable
Nestlé is by far the most recognisable food brand.

"I find long commercial breaks slightly more annoying than pop-ups."
He thinks that long commercial breaks are a bit more annoying than pop-ups.

far better -much better
slightly better - a little better
by far the best - definitely the best

not quite as many
The campaign generated not quite as many leads as we hoped.

not nearly as successful
The product launch was not nearly as successful as the company expected.

"The campaign generated not quite as many leads as we hoped"?
The campaign generated a little fewer leads than we hoped.

Big difference
far more ... than, by far the most..., not nearly as...as

Small difference
slightly more ... than, not quite as...as

Swap "more" for "less"
You can also use some of these expressions to make comparisions to 
a lower degree by swapping "more" for "less".

👉 Print ads are far less effective than digital ads.
👉 My company's slogan is slightly less catchy than the competitors'.
👉 Clothes brands are by far the least profitable for our agency.

Early print ads were far less visual than bilboards.

TV advertising feels way more personalised than billboards.

Understanding Kamala will be way easier now!
In this part of the lesson, you'll hear Kamala, the head of advertising 
at a New York agency, talking to her team about the evolution of 
advertising.

She will look at how some aspects of advertising changed throughout the 
centuries, and she will compare them using the structures you've just learned.

Your first task is to complete the timeline on the next screen.
Watch out for this vocabulary:

a breakthrough (n)  - an important discovery or development
a shift (n) - a change
far-reaching (adj) - having a great influence 

15th century: small outdoor printed ads | 
19th century: huge outdoor ads |
20th century: broadcast media | 1990s: online media

The appearance of broadcast media led to important changes in advertising.

It felt way more personalized|way more personalised because 
these media spoke to people directly.

To give an example of brand personality.

For example, Tony the Tiger, by far the most recognisable cereal mascot, 
came to mean a fun family breakfast.

What changed in advertising after the internet was invented?
Promoting a product meant promoting a way of life.

However, all these changes in advertising were not nearly 
as far-reaching as the ones brought about by the Internet era in the 1990s.

not nearly as far-reaching as = a lot less widespread

Early advertising was not nearly as - elaborate as what we see today.
Early print ads were far less - visual than billboards.
However, by far the - biggest change was brought about by the internet.

Keep on practising!🎧
In this part of the lesson, Kamala will explain to her team why she's 
prepared a presentation on the history of advertising for them. 
Go to the next screen and listen to what she says.

Have a look at this vocabulary to better understand Kamala.
a milestone (n) - an important event
to capitalise on sth (v) - to use something to your advantage
relatable (adj) - that someone can identify with 
retro (adj) - looking like something from the past 

Why has Kamala talked to her team about the history of advertising in her presentation?
To suggest changes in their advertising ideas.

"In other words, I want us to bring the retro back and make it fresh 
and relatable for our digital audience."
Kamala wants to mix new ideas and old styles.

Pitching ideas
Kamala's team is taking the task very seriously. They are pitching their 
ideas to Kamala for Vanille, a perfume brand they're working for. First 
up is Leo with an idea for a leaflet. 

to pitch ideas (v) - present an idea because you want to convince somebody to do something
a leaflet (n) - a printed sheet advertising a product 

Your leaflet is slightly less relatable than what I hoped for.

A retro billboard
Next up is Serena. She's pitching an idea for a retro billboard.
Go to the next exercise to find out what Kamala thinks of it. 

Your billboard is far more inspiring than Leo's leaflet.

"The billboard is far more inspiring than Leo's leaflet."
Leo's leaflet is not nearly as inspiring as the billboard.

A branded mug
Now it's Ali's turn to present his idea. He focused on promotional items 
and is presenting a vintage-looking branded mug. Keep on working to see 
if Kamala likes it. 

promotional items (n) - products that you give to promote your business
a branded mug (n) - a mug with a company's logo and/or slogan on it. 

A branded mug
Now it's Ali's turn to present his idea. 
He focused on promotional items and is presenting a vintage-looking branded mug. 
Keep on working to see if Kamala likes it. 

promotional items (n) - products that you give to promote your business
a branded mug (n) - a mug with a company's logo and/or slogan on it. 

Your mug is by far the most confusing idea I've seen in a long time.

Retro advertising ideas
The leaflet
Kamala 💬: "Your leaflet is slightly less relatable than what I hoped for."

The billboard
Kamala 💬: "Leo's leaflet is not quite as inspirational as the billboard."

The branded mug
Kamala 💬: "Your branded mug is by far the most confusing idea I've seen in a long time."

Which idea does she like most?
the billboard

Now you know way more!
Wouldn't you agree that comparing in English is far more exciting 
than you expected or not nearly as boring as you feared? 😉

Take a final look at the structures you've just learned and can use way 
more confidently now.

a small difference
slightly more/less ... than
not quite as ... as 

a big difference
far more/less ... than 
way more/less ... than
not nearly as ... as 
by far the most ...

-------------------
6. Developing fluency - Weigh up opinions

I've been cyberbullied!
I always see internet trolls writing hateful messages whenever a 
celebrity posts something on social media. But it's not just famous 
people they target.

One time, I commented on my local football team's post and one of their 
supporters bit my head off with comments like, “You don’t know anything 
about football” and “Delete your account now!”  

When I tried to stand up for myself, they went ballistic and harassed me 
with way more violent messages. This cyberbully even sent me private 
messages saying they knew where I lived and threatened to find me! 

I always see internet trolls writing hateful messages.

"to defend or support oneself"
I want to stand up for myself.

bite someone's head off - to talk to someone in an aggressive way
go ballistic - to become extremely angry

Don't feed the trolls!
It can’t be nice being a target of online hate, and Jason's experience 
is very common. People tend to deal with internet trolls and cyberbullies 
differently and not everyone agrees on which method is the best.

Some people would argue that we should try to respond to trolls and 
cyberbullies to get them to stop. On the other hand, standing up for 
yourself will only feed the trolls, which might lead to further 
harassment and threats.

Others suggest an opposite tactic. Their viewpoint is that it is better 
to just ignore trolls completely or block their account so that they can 
no longer see your profile. In my opinion, blocking trolls may not work 
as they could simply create a new account and start cyberbullying again.

If I were Jason, I wouldn't respond. Instead, I would document everything 
they write, then report bullying to the moderators of that app.

Standing up for yourself will only feed the trolls, 
which might lead to further harassment and threats.

Blocking trolls may not work as they could simply create a new account and start cyberbullying again.

Blocking trolls may not work as they could simply create a new account 
and start cyberbullying again.
Luke does not think that blocking trolls is a good idea.

Which of these actions does Luke suggest Jason do?
Report the cyberbully to the moderators of the app.

Great work! 💪
It's useful to be able to talk about other people's opinions, 
as well as our own. Let's look at how we do this:

Their viewpoint is that reporting harassment works best.
My viewpoint is that reporting harassment works best.

They would argue that responding will only feed the trolls.
I would argue that responding will only feed the trolls.

In their opinion, blocking them doesn't always work.
In my opinion, blocking them doesn't always work.

 "opinion". - viewpoint

Their viewpoint is that trolls will eventually stop if you ignore them.

Which phrase introduces an opposing point of view?
On the other hand

Which phrase specifically refers to other people's ideas?
They would argue that

the correct phrase to introduce your opinion
In my opinion, anyone can be targeted by trolls.

I would argue that some cyberbullies like to harrass people for fun.

What are the different ways we could address online bullying?
Which do you recommend?

The update can't have failed.
She is making a comment about an update that happened in the past ("can't have failed").

to express certainty.
That booking site can't have been very secure!

"causing much discussion"
One of the most controversial parts of Facebook data collection is 
a feature called “People you may know”.























































