The future

1. Future perfect - Use the future perfect

Talking about the future - recap ⭐
Look at some examples of how we can talk about the future:

Future simple
"I'll start my new book next week."
A plan for the future.

Present continuous
"I'm cooking dinner this evening."
A plan for the near future.

Future continuous
"At 9pm tomorrow I'll be driving to the station."
Something that will be happening at a certain point in the future.

"I'll start my new book next week."
This sentence contains the future simple with "will".

near future
I'm cooking dinner this evening.

This sentence contains the future continuous ("will be" + verb -ing).
"At 9pm tomorrow I'll be driving to the station."

"I'll buy a new car at the end of the month." - a plan for the future
"I'm going out for dinner this evening!" - a plan for the NEAR future
"On Saturday I'll be lying on the beach."
something that will be happening at a certain point in the future

Let's now look at some examples of the future perfect tense. 👀

By this time next year, I'll have completed my studies.
My boyfriend will have met my entire family by Christmas.

How do we use the future perfect?
We use the future perfect to talk about an action that is expected or 
planned to happen before a certain point in the future. 🔮

By this time next year, I'll have completed my studies.
I will finish my studies before this time next year.

My boyfriend will have met my entire family by Christmas.
My boyfriend will meet my entire family before Christmas.

We use the future perfect to talk about an action that is expected or 
planned to finish before another future point.

"I will have graduated by June." - It will happen at some point before June.
"I will graduate in June." - It will happen in June.

How do we form the future perfect?
******************************
We form it using "will have" (➕) or "won't have" (➖) + past participle. 
We also need to indicate a specific time ("by next year", "by tomorrow" etc).

I hope that by this time next year, I will have bought a car.
They won't have finished the project by next Monday.

"By my 30th birthday I will have bought a car."
It will happen at some point before my 30th birthday.

"On my 30th birthday I will buy a car."
It will happen on my 30th birthday.

Here's a reminder of when we use the future perfect.

By this time next week I will have moved house.
I will move house at some point before this time next week.

The new apartments won't have gone up by October.
The new apartments won't go up at some point before October.

He will have finished the assignment by this evening.
I will have gone to bed by 11pm.
They will have landed in New York by lunchtime.
The film won't have ended by dinner.
She won't have finished her book by this time next week.
He will have gone to bed by the time you get home.
He won't have had time to go to the shops by this afternoon.
By this time next week, you will have finished your exams!
I won't have eaten|will not have eaten by the time you get back.
I won't have eaten by the time you get back.

--------------------------
2. Looking to the future - Talk about your future

In this reading lesson we're going to talk about our "future self". 
We'll explore how the plans and decisions we make in the present 
will affect our lives in the future. 🔮
First, we'll complete some exercises that will help us understand the reading.

Do you have set plans for the future, or do you take life as it comes?
"What will I be doing in 10 years' time?"
The future continuous describes actions that will happen at a specific point in the future.

"Will I be happy with the choices I am making now?"

By the time I reach 35, I will have bought my first house.

What will I be doing in the future?
What will I have achieved by the time I reach 40?

By the time I am 70, I will have visited every continent.
What will I be doing this time next year?

Let's read!
On the next screen we will read a text about the "future self". 📘

As you read, notice the words in bold. These are all words associated with 
change, and we will focus on them in the next part of the lesson!

a transformation (n) - a complete change of character or appearance, often an improvement

to alter (v) - to make a small change to something
to evolve (v) - to develop gradually
to adapt (v) - to change in order to suit different conditions
to unfold (v) - to happen or develop (a situation)

My future self 🔮
*******************
Every day we make decisions that will affect our future selves. But will our 
future selves be happy with the decisions we are making right now?

Decisions about how we spend our time, our money, and what career path we 
choose to follow will have an impact on how our life evolves. So, should we 
think about our future selves when we make decisions now? We might ask 
ourselves “What will I be doing in 5 or 10 years' time? And will I be happy 
with the choices I am making now?”

Many people set goals, and plan their own transformations. They might create 
visions for themselves, and then alter their lives and routines to make the 
visions come true. For example:

1. "By this summer, I will have lost weight."
2. "By the time I reach 35, I will have bought my first house."
3. "By this time next year, I will have found a new job."
4. "I hope that by the time I am 70 I will have visited every continent."

On the other hand, there are those who hate planning, and who make decisions 
based on their present selves, and their present lives. The main focus is not 
what they will be doing in the future, or what they will have achieved by the 
time they reach a certain age. That’s not to say that they do not care for the 
future, but that they are happy to adapt and change depending on what unfolds 
in their lives.

And what about you? Do you have set plans for the future, or do you take life 
as it comes? Perhaps you are somewhere in the middle of the two.

I have planned my transformation for the next few years."
I am happy to adapt depending on what unfolds in my life.

"I am happy to adapt depending on what unfolds in my life."
This person is flexible about changing their plans.

"I have planned my transformation for the next few years."
This person makes solid plans for the future.

"make a small change to something". - alter

The career path we choose to follow will have an impact on how our life evolves.

I don't think I have any control over how my life evolves.

unfolds - happens

I hope that by next month I will have adapted to my new 

We can all work towards a transformation if we want to.

to alter - to make a small change
to adapt - to change in order to meet different conditions
to unfold - to happen or develop

--------------------------
3. Developing fluency - Discuss your aims for the future




















































































































































































































































































































































































































































