Lifestyle

1. Reading about "hygge" - Transform adjectives and nouns

Have you ever heard of the Danish concept of hygge? 
🇩🇰 The word hygge has no direct translation, but it is the idea of comfort, 
contentment and feeling cosy. 🕯️

In this lesson we are going to learn some words associated with hygge 
before we read a text.

cosiness
Burning candles creates a feeling of cosiness.
"Cosiness" describes the pleasant feeling of comfort and warmth.

Candles and cosiness

Candles are associated with hygge and this feeling of cosiness, 
as they create a warm atmosphere. 
🕯️ In fact, people in Denmark burn more candles than anywhere 
else in the world!

For many people, hygge is about cosiness and comfort.
We need the noun form "cosiness" here, not the adjective form "cosy".

Hygge involves a bit of indulgence.

"Indulgence" is when you allow yourself to have something enjoyable, 
especially when it is not good for you. For example, cake! 🍰
🍰 Cake is my favourite indulgence!

Hygge involves a bit of indulgence.
We need the noun form "indulgence" here, not the adjective form "indulgent".

Cake is my favourite indulgence!
We need the noun form "indulgence" here, not the adjective form "indulgent".

warmth
Creating warmth is a big part of hygge.

Creating warmth is a big part of hygge.
The noun form of the adjective "warm" is slightly irregular: "warmth".

Denmark has cold winters, so creating warmth at home is essential!
We need the noun form "warmth" here, not the adjective form "warm".

gratitude
I feel a sense of gratitude when I am with my friends.
When we feel "grateful" or "thankful" for something, 
what we are feeling is "gratitude".

Let's read!

In the text, you will see the nouns we've just learned, and their adjective forms. 🔍

Noun            Adjective
cosiness        cosy
warmth          warm
gratitude       grateful
indulgence      indulgent

Hygge 🇩🇰

In 2016, "hygge" was named as one of the Oxford Dictionary’s words of the year.
But what is hygge?

The Danish-born concept of hygge has been called 
"the pursuit of everyday happiness." 
It is spending time with the people you love, it is indulgence, warmth, 
cosiness and gratitude. Hygge is part of Danish culture, 
but it is practised by people all over the world.

Hygge can involve some unhealthy eating. 
It’s a way to relax the rules, and treat yourself. 
Some people might choose an indulgent treat, like cake, chocolate or alcohol.

Because Danish winters are particularly cold, creating warmth is 
an important part of hygge. This includes burning candles at home 
to create a cosy ambience. Spending time with friends and family can add 
to this warmth.

Despite the cold climate, the Danes love to spend time outside. 
They might choose to walk or cycle to their destination, instead of driving. 
If it’s too cold to go out into nature, nature can be brought inside 
in the form of plants.

Through hygge, the Danes pursue happiness every day. 
They try to feel grateful for the smaller things in day-to-day life. 
It is no surprise, then, that Danes are known for their happiness. 
Denmark has been ranked as one of the world’s happiest countries many times. 
If we try and practise hygge every day, will we transform our lives 
for the better?

Hygge is about being warm and cosy
In the second paragraph, it says hygge is "indulgence, warmth, cosiness and gratitude".

Hygge can involve some unhealthy eating.
The Danish concept of hygge can help us find happiness in small things.
The text describes how small things (e.g. treats and gratitude) can bring daily happiness.

cosy
The only adjective here is "cosy", which means "warm and comfortable".

indulgent, indulgence
The adjective is "indulgent" and the noun is "indulgence".

Danes try to feel grateful for the smaller things in day-to-day life.
We need the adjective form "grateful" here, not the noun form "gratitude".

It’s the idea of being surrounded by the people you love, of indulgence, 
warmth, cosiness and gratitude.
We need the noun forms "cosiness" and "gratitude" here, not the adjective forms.

Spending time with friends and family can add to this warmth.
The noun form of the adjective "warm" is "warmth".

Some people might choose an indulgent treat, like cake, chocolate or alcohol.

------------------------
2. The passive - Use the passive in different tenses

Hygge is part of Danish culture, but it is practised by people all over the world.
This sentence uses the passive form of the verb.

When do we use the passive?
We use the passive when we want to focus on who receives the action, 
not who does the action.
We often see the passive in academic or scientific writing. ✍️

🇩🇰 People know the Danes for their happiness.
active - focus on who ("people") does an action ("to know")

🇩🇰 The Danes are known for their happiness.
passive - focus on who ("the Danes") receives an action ("to be known")

Hygge is practised every day.
The passive focuses on the action, not who does the action.

"Indulgent food is often eaten".
We don't know who eats the food.

"Danes often eat indulgent food".
We know who eats the food.

In the sentence containing the passive ("Indulgent food is often eaten"), 
we don't know who eats the food.

How do we form the passive?
We use the verb "to be" plus the past participle of the verb.

Hygge is practised all over the world.

How do we form the passive?

We change the tense of "to be" depending on whether we're talking 
about the past, the present or the future.

In this lesson, we will practise the following tenses:

Present simple
"People all over the world practise hygge."
"Hygge is practised all over the world."

Present perfect
"He has written many books about hygge."
"Many books have been written about hygge."

Past simple
"She invited them to a dinner party."
"They were invited to a dinner party."

We were invited to a dinner party.
"We were invited..." is an example of a passive form.

"Hygge" was named one of the words of 2016. - passive
Linguists named "hygge" as one of the words of 2016. - active
The passive form is "Hygge was named", while the active form is "Linguists named...".

Hygge 🇩🇰

In 2016, "hygge" was named as one of the Oxford Dictionary’s words of the year.
 But what is hygge?

The Danish-born concept of hygge has been called the "pursuit of everyday happiness". 
It is spending time with the people you love, it is indulgence, warmth, 
cosiness and gratitude. Hygge is part of Danish culture, 
and is practised by people all over the world.

Hygge can involve some unhealthy eating. It’s a way to relax the rules, 
and treat yourself. Some people might choose an indulgent treat, like cake, 
chocolate or alcohol.

Because Danish winters are particularly cold, creating warmth is an important 
part of hygge. This includes burning candles at home to create a cosy ambience.
Spending time with friends and family can add to this warmth.

Despite the cold climate, the Danes love to spend time outside. 
They might choose to walk or cycle to their destination, instead of driving. 
If it’s too cold to go out into nature, nature can be brought inside 
in the form of plants.

Through hygge, the Danes pursue happiness every day. 
They try to feel grateful for the smaller things in day-to-day life. 
It is no surprise then, that the Danes are known for their happiness. 
Denmark has been ranked as one of the world’s happiest countries many times. 
If we try and practise hygge every day, will we transform our lives 
for the better?

"People all over the world practise hygge."
Hygge is practised by people all over the world.
The correct passive form is "Hygge is practised", as the active verb is 
in the present simple: "practise".

Hygge has been called the "pursuit of everyday happiness".
The correct form here is: "has been called". 
This is an example of the present perfect passive.

"Hygge" was named as one of the Oxford Dictionary’s words of the year.
In this sentence, "was named" is in the past simple passive form.

Hygge is practised by people all over the world.
The passive is formed using a form of the verb "to be" + past participle 
(e.g. "is practised").

The Danes are known for their happiness.

The passive is formed using a form of the verb "to be" + past participle 
(e.g. "are known").

Lots of candles are burned|are burnt in Denmark.
Remember, the past participle of the verb "burn" has two forms: "burnt" and "burned".

A new book on hygge has been published.
The passive form of the present perfect "has published" is "has been published".

I was given a book about hygge.
The passive form of the past simple "I gave" is "I was given".

---------------------
3. Discussing your lifestyle - Talk about self-improvement







































































































































































































































































































































