Emotions

1. London lockdown - Talk about living in uncertain times

The most difficult thing I've ever experienced is the COVID pandemic.
We can use "ever" with the positive present perfect form.

Ben says "I want to talk about how we're all feeling", so he is referring to emotions.

Most stores are closed.
Ben says that "most stores" are closed, but not all of them.

Most people in the US and Canada say "stores". 
In the UK the word "shops" is more common. 🛒

🇺🇸  🇨🇦  US, Canada: I'm going to the store.
🇬🇧 UK: I'm going to the shop. 

What limitations are placed on grocery stores?
Only a certain number of people can be inside at one time.
He says in the video: "Grocery stores have a new limit on 
how many customers they can have."

People feel very confused about the rules in shops.
Because some people don't follow the rules, others feel very confused about the rules.

Ben says that people feel "very uncomfortable" as a result of 
the "uncertainty and confusion".

Which statement best summarises Ben's message in the video?
It's difficult to know how to feel right now.
Ben's video focuses more on emotions - he discusses stores to show 
how daily life has changed.

Everybody is feeling a little weird.
We use the present continuous tense ("is feeling") to describe 
how people feel "during a specific period of time"

"I'm feeling" or "I feel"?
We can use the present continuous ("I'm feeling") or the present simple 
("I feel") to talk about our feelings.

They mean the same thing, but we might use "I'm feeling" to emphasise our 
emotions in this exact moment or in this period of time. 😃 😑 😩

I'm feeling a little weird right now.
I feel a little weird.
I'm feeling a little weird.
I feel weird.

We're all feeling a little weird.
Notice the pronunciation of "weird" - it sounds a little bit different 
from how it's written.

We don't have the freedom we used to have.

uncomfortable
Notice "uncomfortable" has four syllables and sounds more like 
"un-COMF-ta-ble". We stress the second syllable.

All this confusion and uncertainty makes us very uncomfortable.
We want the noun "confusion" to match the noun "uncertainty". 
The other option, "confused", is an adjective.

I'm not okay 😔
We sometimes ask "(are) you okay?" instead of "how are you?" 
when we think someone is not okay. 👎

Are you okay?
No, I'm feeling weird. 😔

We sometimes ask "(are) you okay?" instead of "how are you?" 
- especially if we think the other person is not okay!

------------------
2. Describing challenging feelings - Learn to describe feelings

All this confusion and uncertainty makes us very uncomfortable.
"Confusion" and "uncertainty" are examples of difficult or negative emotions.

Ben uses many words that have both adjective forms and noun forms.

Let's take a closer look. 👀

adjective               noun
uncertain               uncertainty
uncomfortable           discomfort
lonely                  loneliness

What is Ben's main message in this video?
It's okay to have feelings.
Ben's main message in the video is that feelings are normal.

uncertain (adj)
We are living in uncertain times.

uncertainty (n)
All this uncertainty makes us very uncomfortable.

In general, uncertainty makes me feel uncomfortable.
Here she uses the noun form "uncertainty", not the adjective form "uncertain".

uncomfortable (adj)
All this confusion and uncertainty makes us very uncomfortable.

discomfort (n)
That discomfort can be scary.
* "Discomfort" is a noun referring to a feeling.

lonely (adj)
He feels lonely.

loneliness (n)
If your emotion is loneliness, maybe you’re missing a friend.

If your emotion is loneliness, maybe you're missing a friend.
Notice how we stress the first syllable in the word "LONE-li-ness".

lonely - adjective
loneliness - noun

Here's a tip!
Some words have two adjective forms, one that we use to describe how we feel 
("she's frustrated"), and another that we use to describe things or situations 
("lockdown is frustrating").

noun            "I feel..." (adj)       "the situation is..." (adj)
frustration     frustrated              frustrating
confusion       confused                confusing
isolation       isolated                isolating

frustrated (adj)
A friend of mine was feeling frustrated.

frustrating (adj)
This situation is really frustrating.

frustration (n)
It can be hard to express our frustration.

A friend of mine was feeling frustrated.
Ben uses "frustrated" to describe how his friend felt. 
The thing which caused that feeling was "frustrating".

I feel confused.
The situation is confusing.
The adjective "confused" describes how someone feels. 
The situation which makes them feel this is "confusing".

He feels isolated.
Lockdown can be isolating.
The adjective "isolated" describes how someone feels. 
Lockdown is described as "isolating".

Hi Ben! 👋
I just wanted to say thank you for posting your vlog during lockdown. 
Even though the pandemic is over now, what you said can still help people 
going through other difficult situations.
I watched it with my brother, and I have to say it had a really positive 
effect on him. My brother felt very frustrated. There was a lot of confusion 
around his job at the start of lockdown, and he felt lonely 
- he missed his colleagues!
At first, it was hard for my brother to express his frustration. 
I think it was very easy to feel isolated in this situation. 
But your vlog really helped him - he decided to make a plan. 
He took an online course so that he could find a new job, which was really exciting!
So thank you Ben, for inspiring us to talk about how we feel and 
to find something positive in this uncertainty. Claudia 😊

There was a lot of confusion.
Notice that we stress the second syllable in the word: "con-FUS-ion".

At first, it was hard for my brother to express his frustration.
To complete the sentence we need the noun form: "frustration".

In this situation it was very easy to feel isolated.
He wanted to find a new job, which was really exciting.
Remember, "isolated" describes how her brother felt. Looking for a new job was "exciting".

In this situation, it was very easy to feel isolated.
We need to find something positive in this uncertainty.
The noun "uncertainty" describes the situation experienced 
by many people during the pandemic.

--------------------------
3. Using multiple tenses - Choose tenses to describe emotions

We're going to focus on the different tenses Ben uses to describe the 
situation and his thoughts. 💭

Look at the examples of how we use different past tenses:

Past simple:
"I went to the store yesterday."
an event in the past

Present perfect:
"She's realised that she wants a new job."
an event in the past that still applies to the present

"So I thought about it and I learned that I am not happy in London."
Ben uses the past simple, because he learned these things in the past.

.it’s made my life a lot better.
The verb "it's made" (it has made) is in the present perfect tense.

"Everybody is feeling a little weird."
Ben uses the present continuous ("is feeling") to describe 
everyone's emotions at this exact moment.
* The present continuous emphasises that these feelings are happening right now.

"Maybe you're missing a friend." - talking about a current feeling
"A friend of mine was feeling frustrated." - talking about a past feeling

"I’ve been using this opportunity to get closer to some of my friends."
Ben uses the present perfect continuous to talk about an action 
that started in the past and continues now.

A friend of mine was feeling frustrated.
We use the past continuous ("was feeling") to talk about a feeling in the past.

A friend of mine is feeling|'s feeling frustrated.
We can say either "is feeling" or "'s feeling" if we want to be more informal.

So I thought about it and I learned that I am not happy in London.
Ben uses the past simple verb forms "thought" (to think) and "learned" (to learn).

I've been using this opportunity to get closer to some of my friends.
Ben uses the present perfect continuous "I've been using" here to describe his recent actions.

I was feeling a bit lonely.
To describe your emotions in the past ,you can say "I was feeling" (past continuous).

I've been using my time to study and it's made a huge difference.
The correct forms are in the present perfect: ("I've been using") and ("it's made").

If your emotion is loneliness, maybe you are missing|you're missing a friend.
you're missing
You can say "you are missing" or "you're missing" to sound more natural.

She has realised that she wants to quit her job.
Her realisation in the past has an effect in the present. 
Now she wants to find a new job!

She realised that she wanted to quit her job.
The past simple form of "realise" is "realised".

---------------------
4. Language recap - Review of recent lessons

There's a lot of uncertainty at work right now.
"Uncertainty" is the noun form. The adjective form is "uncertain".

frustration - noun
frustrating - adjective (situation, thing)
frustrated - adjective (person)
We say a situation is "frustrating", because it makes us feel "frustrated".

* adjective form of "frustration" (for a situation)
Work is really frustrating at the moment.
Work is causing frustration, so we say it's "frustrating".

adjective form of "frustration" (for a person)
He's feeling very frustrated.
To describe how a person is feeling, we use the adjective form "frustrated".

I'm quite confused about what's expected of me.
To describe how a person is feeling, we use the adjective form "frustrated".

It's been kinda weird really.
Listen carefully: he uses the casual form "kinda" instead of "kind of" in this sentence.

You can express your frustration.
Notice how the second syllable in the word is stressed: "fru-STRA-tion".

I am feeling|I'm feeling quite uncomfortable.
I'm feeling
To express your feelings right now, you can say "I am feeling" or 
"I'm feeling" (to sound more natural).

I often feel quite uncomfortable when talking about my feelings.
The adjective "uncomfortable" has an irregular noun form: "discomfort".

I am feeling quite uncomfortable.
I often feel quite uncomfortable.
We can't use the frequency adverb "often" with the present continuous form "I am feeling".

We don't use adverbs of frequency (words like "often" and "always") with the 
present continuous ("I'm feeling...") but we put them before the verb in the 
present simple ("I often feel...")

Correct ✅
I often feel quite uncomfortable.

Correct ✅
I always call my friends.

Incorrect ❌ 
I often am feeling quite uncomfortable.

I often feel quite uncomfortable.
The opposite of the adjective "comfortable" is "uncomfortable".

-----------------------
5. Developing fluency - Describe your experiences

What has this year been like for you?
To ask about someone's recent past experience, we use the present perfect 
tense ("has been").

This year has been very difficult for me.
We can use the present perfect ("has been") to talk about our recent experiences.

What happened to Lucy this year?
She had problems at work.
Lucy says "I lost my job", so her experience was related to work problems.

..and I've been feeling very frustrated.
Lucy uses the present perfect continuous ("I've been feeling...") to talk 
about her recent feelings.

I hope that soon I'll feel excited about new professional opportunities.
Remember, we use "excited" to describe how we feel, but "exciting" for the 
thing that makes us feel that way.

Lucy's situation was... confusing.
Lucy's partner was... supportive.
When someone helps us through a challenge, we can say they are "supportive".

Carlos has been feeling bad about his love life.
He broke up with his girlfriend and he says he's been feeling "weird".

To be honest, things have been really weird for me lately.
The pronunciation of "weird" is a little tricky! Listen again: "w-e-i-r-d".

I've learned that it's important to talk about my feelings.




























































































































































































































































































































































