
Chapter 7: Journey to work

Getting to work
Learn to talk about ways of getting to work

How do you get to work?

We use "How do you get to work?" to ask about 
the form of transport someone uses to travel to work.

I never see you on the same train or bus as me.
How do you get to work Amy?

How do you get to work?
We use "get to" with a place to mean "arrive at".

by car
I live outside the city centre, so I come here by car.

on foot
I live near the office, so I go to work on foot.

Here's a tip!
To answer the question "How do you get to work?" 
we often use other verbs connected with travel, 
like "go", "come", "travel" etc.

We add the form of transport using: 
"by" + the vehicle (e.g."by bus") 
or "on foot" if we walk there.

We don't use "a/an" or "the" before the vehicle.

I get to work by bus/train/car.
I get to work on foot.
I go to work by bus/train/car.
I go to work on foot.
I come to the office by bus/train/car.
I come to the office on foot.

I sometimes go to work by car.
My colleagues go to work by train.

When we talk about using a vehicle 
(e.g. bus, train, car), we say "by" without "a" or "the".

I go to work on foot on Mondays.
We say "on foot when we walk; we only use "by" with vehicles.

to take the bus
My boss takes the bus when it's not too busy.

Here's a tip!
We say "to take" a form of transport "to" a place.
It has the same meaning as "to go to" a place 
"by" a form of transport.

I usually take the train to work.
I usually go to work by train.

I take the bus to work when I need to get there quickly.

to work from home
Lots of IT professionals work from home.

My supervisor is working from home today.
We use "from" to talk about a position or place.

How do you get to work?

I go to work by car.
I come to the office on foot.
I work from home.

Sometimes I take the bus to work, sometimes I go on foot.
I usually take the bus to the office in the morning.

I go to the office on foot, 
except if it's raining, when I go by car.

This morning I came to the office on foot 
as I needed some exercise.

I work from home on Mondays and go by car the other days

In the past, I took the bus to the office, 
but now I work from home.

VOCABULARY

How do you get to work?
by car
on foot
to take the bus
to work from home

-----------

Travelling to and from work
Learn to talk about your journey to and from work

How long does it take you to get to work?

We ask "how long does it take" with "to" + verb 
to ask about the time needed to do something.

it takes
It takes 30 minutes to get to the office by bus.

It takes me 20 minutes to come to the office on foot.
We use "it takes (someone)" + time + verb in the infinitive 
(e.g. "to do").

to catch the train
I have to leave now so I can catch the train 
in 20 minutes.

to miss the train
Sorry, but I can't stop 
as I don't want to miss the train.

I have to wake up early to catch the train at 8'o'clock.
if I miss it the next one is at 8:30.
That's mean being late for work.

Here's a tip!
We use "to catch" with forms of public transport 
with timetables, so we say "to catch" with trains, 
planes, buses, ferries etc, but not with taxis, cars, bicycles etc.

The opposite of "to catch" is "to miss".

Tomorrow I'm getting up really early to catch the first bus.
I missed the bus this morning, so I was late for work.

I need to go now to catch the next train home.
We say "to catch a train" with the meaning of 
"to get on the train in order to travel".

I'll be late for my first meeting if I miss this bus.
We say "to miss" with things with timetables, 
but "to lose" when we don't know something's location.

to be on time
The trains in my city are usually on time.

If I catch the next train, I will be on time for the meeting.
But if I miss it, I will probably be late.

Here's a tip!
1. As well as with people, we use "on time" 
with events and things, including forms of transport.

2. We also often use "on time" with "to get to" 
and a place to mean "arrive at the correct time".

1. I hope the bus is on time.
2. I really need to get to work on time tomorrow!

Let's see if the train is on time this morning.
We use "on time" to mean "at the correct time". 
We use "at" with a specific time like "at 8pm".

It only takes me about 20 minutes to get to work on foot.
The structure is: 
"something takes someone XX minutes/hours etc to do something".

If I don't catch the early train, 
I'll miss the connecting train and 
I won't get to the conference on time.

The opposite of "to catch the train" is 
"to miss the train"; if we are "on time", we are punctual.

There's a bus every 10 minutes, 
so if I miss the first one, I can easily catch the next one.

I'll be on time for work if I don't miss the bus!
We say "to be on time for something".

It's important that I get to the conference on time.

I'm going to wake up early to catch the first train.

The train takes one hour so I don't want to miss it!

VOCABULARY
How long does it take you to get to work?

it takes
to catch the train
to miss the train
to be on time

------------

Talking about your journey
Practise listening to businesspeople's journeys

Excuse me, could I ask you some questions 
about how you get to work?

Elsa: Excuse me, could I ask you some questions 
about how you get to work?
Pablo: Yes, of course.
Elsa: How do you usually get to work?
Pablo: I usually catch the bus from near my house, 
       but if I'm late or I miss the bus, 
	   I take a taxi. I don't like driving in all this traffic.
Elsa: Ah I see, and how long does it take you to get there by bus?
Pablo: I think it's about 30 minutes, but it might be less.
Elsa: And are the buses usually on time?
Pablo: No, that's why I don't really know 
	 how long it takes me to get there!

How do you get to work?
by bus or taxi

How long does it take you to get there?
about 30 minutes

Sam: How do you usually get to work?
Polly: Well, I take the bus, but not every day.
Sam: Aha, and the days you don't go by bus, 
	is it because they aren't on time?
Polly: No, no, the buses are OK, 
	they're not usually late. 
	I only come to the office twice a week. 
	The rest of the week I work from home.
Sam: Oh, I see. Well, thanks for your time.

Polly sometimes goes by bus.

She sometimes works from home.

The buses are usually on time.

Meera: How do you usually get to work?
Jay: I usually go by car, but this week 
	I have a problem with the car and 
	there aren't many buses, so I walked here today.
Meera: Oh really? And how long did that take you?
Jay: About an hour, but it's OK, it's a nice walk. 
	Oh, sorry I have to go now, 
	I really need to be on time for the first meeting! Bye

-----------------

Developing fluency
Practise talking about your journey to work

I usually go to work by car, 
but sometimes I go on foot in the summer.

I go to the station on foot, then I catch a bus.

We say "to catch a bus", "to go by bus" 
and "to take a bus", all with similar meanings.

I usually get to work on time except if I miss the train.
If something is "on time", it is not early or late; 
"to miss the train" means to not catch it.

If I miss the bus, I take a taxi.
I take the train to work, which takes about an hour.

I go by bus twice a week, and work from home the other days.
It only takes me 20 minutes to get to work 
if the buses are on time.

I take a bus in the morning and 
come home on foot if it's not raining.






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































