Chapter 3: Around the office

Learning about the office
Learn to describe places around the office

reception
When visitors arrive at the office, 
the first place they go is reception.

"reception" is the first place you go when you enter an office.

Here's a tip!

on or in reception?

Be careful because both are correct!

However, there is a difference...

We use "on reception" for the desk 
where the receptionist works.

David works on reception.


We use "in reception" for the whole room 
that includes the desk.

I'll meet you in reception.

The guests are waiting in reception.
Say "in reception" to refer to the whole area.

an open-plan office
In an open-plan office, all employees work 
in the same office space.

A separate office is not part of an "open-plan office".

An open-plan office can get noisy sometimes.
There are no walls in an "open-plan office", 
so it can get noisy when a lot of people are working.

a meeting room
Book the meeting room for a call at 2pm.

A meeting room is a good place to talk 
with clients and colleagues.
A "meeting room" is used for talking 
about work and making plans

When you want to talk to your whole team, 
it's best to book a meeting room.

A "meeting room" is a quiet, private space.

a phone booth
A phone booth is a small, quiet room 
to make phone or video calls.

A "phone booth" is for private calls. 
You shouldn't eat or drink in there.

I took a private call from a client in the phone booth.

a breakout area
A breakout area is a relaxed place 
to take a break or talk casually.

A "breakout area" is a space that's separate 
from the usual work area.

Can we have a quick chat in the breakout area?

A "break-out room" is a place in an online meeting 
where participants can talk in smaller groups.

Check with reception if the meeting room is free at 4pm.
You can usually book a meeting room at reception.

We use the breakout area to meet for coffee.
I have booked a meeting room for our 4pm call.
I work in an open-plan office with my colleagues.

VOCABULARY
reception

an open-plan office

a meeting room

a phone booth

a breakout area

--------------------------

Reading about the office
Develop your understanding of places around the office

Every day, I arrive at work and sign in at reception. 
Then, I go to my desk in the open-plan office. 
If I need to make a private call, I use the phone booth. 
Most days, we have a quick team meeting 
in the meeting room. 
During lunch or breaks, I usually relax 
in the breakout area with a coffee. 
All these spaces are really important 
for a good day at work.

When Irene arrives at work, she goes to reception first.
"reception" is the first place you go 
when you enter an office.

--------------------------

Learning about office equipment
Develop your understanding of office equipment

a workstation
Please clear your workstation before you go home.
A "workstation" has a desk, computer and 
other tools to do a job.

Your workstation is next to the window.

a monitor
I need a second monitor.
A "monitor" is a screen you look at when using a computer.

Your new monitor will arrive tomorrow.
A "monitor" is a screen and 
you use a "mouse" to control a computer.

a laptop
Your laptop needs a software update.
A "laptop" is a small computer you can take anywhere.
Please bring your laptop to the meeting room.

A "laptop" is a small computer; 
a "monitor" is a screen attached to a computer.

a desktop
Do you know the password for the desktop?
A "desktop" is a type of computer that fits 
on the top of a desk.

I work on my laptop when I travel 
and my desktop when I'm in the office.

My desktop has to stay at my workstation.
I use my laptop in the meeting room and phone booth.
I want to put my monitor higher so I sit up straight.

VOCABULARY
a workstation

a monitor

a laptop

a desktop

--------

Learning about more office equipment
Develop your understanding of more office equipment

a printer
How do I connect my laptop to the printer?
A "printer" puts text and pictures from a computer onto paper.

Please take your papers from the printer.
A "monitor" is a computer screen. 
A "printer" prints onto paper using ink.

a photocopier
What's the code for the photocopier?
A "photocopier" makes paper copies of documents.

The photocopier is out of paper.
The average office worker in the USA 
prints 10,000 pages per year!

a scanner
Could I use the scanner, please?
You can use the scanner to make a digital copy of a document.

A "scanner" is a device that changes images or text into electronic form.

Use the scanner to send these invoices to the finance department.
A "scanner" changes paper documents into electronic ones.

a stapler
There's a stapler at my workstation.
A "stapler" puts small metal clips (staples) 
through papers to keep them together.

All of the equipment you've learned about also has its own verb.

You print with the printer.
You copy with the photocopier.
You scan with the scanner.
You staple with the stapler.

Staple those papers together with the stapler.
We use the verb "to staple" to talk about 
attaching papers together with staples.

Print the documents with the printer.

Scan these documents with the scanner.

Copy the documents with the copier.

VOCABULARY
a printer

a photocopier

a scanner

a stapler

---------

Describing office work
Talk about tasks around the office

to do paperwork
Most office workers need to do paperwork.
"to do paperwork" describes any work 
that includes written documents.

Please do the paperwork for the new project.
"to do paperwork" means to fill out, read or organise documents.

to print a report
Can you print a report on the quarterly sales?
"to print a report" means to make a paper copy of a digital document.

Amara needs to print reports for the finance department.
Although most office work is digital now, 
many people still prefer to read hard copies of reports.

to make a call
I'll make a call to confirm the appointment.
"to make a call" means to use a phone 
to talk to someone for a specific reason.

I'll make a call to get the information.
Many professionals prepare thoroughly before making a call: 
some even write a script!

to take a message
Please take a message for any calls I get today.
"to take a message" means to write down information 
from a person calling someone who's unavailable.

I'll take any messages for you while you are away.
Taking accurate messages is important to prevent miscommunication.

to book a meeting room
Can you book a meeting room for tomorrow?

"to book a meeting room" means to reserve 
a space where people can talk about work and make plans.

After you print the report, please book
 a meeting room for our team discussion.

When you finish, do the paperwork for our records.

After lunch, I need to make some important calls.

When you are away, I will take any messages for you.

VOCABULARY
to do paperwork

to print a report

to make a call

to take a message

to book a meeting room

----------

I start my day by going to my workstation.

I open my laptop and check my emails.

When I need to share information with my team, 
I use the photocopier to make copies.

I usually print a report to have all the latest data.

Around 10am, I make a call to discuss plans with team members.

When my boss is busy, I take messages so she can call back later.











