1.1 Describing where you work
Learn to talk and ask about what you do and where you work

What does your company do?
Ask "What does your company do?" when you want 
to ask about a company's business activities.

Where do you have offices?
"Where do you have offices?" means the same 
as "Where does your company have offices?".

headquarters
Our company's headquarters are in New York City.
The "headquarters" are the location of a company's main office.

Here's a tip!
Although a "headquarters" is one place, 
it is followed by a plural verb because 
it refers to a group of people or departments working together.

Our company's headquarters are in New York City.
Our company's headquarters are in London.

based in
My company is based in Hong Kong.
The company headquarters are based in Boston.

We say "based in" to explain where a company 
has its headquarters.

Where do you have offices?
Where are your headquarters?
What does your company do?

I am with Busuu and I'm based in London.
"I'm with a company" is another way to say 
you are an employee of that company.

VOCABULARY
What does your company do?
Where do you have offices?
headquarters
based in

-------------
1.2 Learning about company structures
Learn to describe some places and people within your company

a department
I work in the software department.
The HR department helps workers if they have problems.

"the HR department" looks after employees.

a manager
Each team in the company has a manager.

A good manager listens to the workers.
"a manager" should listen to everyone on their team.

an employee
Every employee in a company is important.
In my company , there are over 100,000 employees.

"an employee" is someone who works in a company.

staff
Most of the staff need a computer for their work.
The staff have a meeting every week.

"staff" is the same as "employees".

Every department helps the company to do well.
"a company" usually has five main "departments".

a manager
a person who checks the people in team are doing their jobs right

an employee - anyone who works at a company for money

staff - all the people who work for a company

VOCABULARY
a department

a manager

an employee

staff

------------
1.3 Describing your work
Learn phrases with "work" to talk about your job

to work for
I work for a large technology company.
I work for a great company.

Use "work for" to talk about the place you work.

to work on
I need to work on a presentation for tomorrow's meeting.
They're working on a project together.

You can use "work on" to talk about tasks you 
do alone or with others.

to work in
She works in the finance department.

He wants to work in customer service.
We say "work in" when you are part of 
a particular department or team within a company.

to work with
All employees in the sales department work with customers.
I like working with different people from different places.

We say "work with someone", when you work together as a team.

I work for a big company in London.
I work on lots of interesting projects.

We use "work for" when you talk about a company,
 and "work on" when you talk about projects or tasks.

I work in the sales department.
I work with new customers everyday.

We use "work in" to talk about departments 
and "work with" to talk about teams.

I need to work on my presentation.
You use "work on" to talk about the pieces of work you do.

I work in the sales team and I work with six people.
You use "work with" to talk about your team or colleagues.

VOCABULARY
to work for

to work on

to work in

to work with

-----------
1.4 Developing fluency
Practise talking about your job and responsibilities

I work for a mobile phone company.
I work for a company called Hammer Industries.
I work on lots of projects.
Who do you work with?
I work with the director of the department.
Which department do you work in?
I work in the finance department.
There are many employees in my department.










