Chapter 8: Business travel

Travelling for work
Talk about business travel

to go on a business trip
I have to go on a business trip to meet 
some important clients.

Once a year, I go on a business trip to our
headquarters. So I can meet all my colleagues 
from different cities.

Valerie uses "to go on a business trip" 
to mean "to travel for work purposes".

As a salesperson, I often go on business trips.
The word "trip" is countable, so we can say "trips"; 
"travel" is an uncountable noun.

to make travel arrangements

Before we go to Brussels, we need to make 
all the travel arrangements.

We need to make the travel arrangements for the conference.
We use "travel" here to describe the type of "arrangements".

We say "travel arrangements" to mean planning 
and preparations for a trip, such as buying tickets.

to book a taxi
I don't want to be late tomorrow morning, 
so I'll book a taxi now.

He has reserved a taxi.
We use "to book" to mean "to make a reservation".

Here's a tip!

We also use "to book" with other things apart 
from taxis, including:

to book a hotel room
to book a flight
to book a table at a restaurant

You can easily book a taxi before you travel, 
using this mobile app.
We say "to book a taxi" when we reserve it 
before we travel.

travel expenses
The company will pay all your travel expenses 
when you go to Dubai.

We say "travel expenses" for costs paid 
by your company when you travel for work.

Here's a tip!
1. We say "an expense" (singular) 
to mean the money you spend on something.

2. We say "expenses" (plural) to mean 
money you spend when you are working, 
that your employer will pay back to you.

1. Buying a car is a big expense.
2. My company is paying all my expenses on this trip.

I go on a lot of business trips, 
but my company pays the travel expenses.

When talking about money you spend 
when working, we use the plural form "expenses".

a company card
When I went to Rome, I used a company card 
to pay for all my meals and other expenses.

We say "a company card" for a corporate credit card 
used to pay expenses like dinners, flights etc.

We'll give you a company card to use 
for your meals and travel costs at the conference.



I'm going on a business trip next week.

I've made the travel arrangements.

I've booked a taxi to the station.

I'm going on a business trip to London.

I have a company card for my travel expenses.
I use my company card for all my travel expenses.

I've booked a taxi to the airport.
We use "to book a taxi" with "to" and a destination.

VOCABULARY
to go on a business trip
to make travel arrangements
to book a taxi
travel expenses
a company card

-------------------------------------------------
Exploring travel arrangements
Talk about flight arrangements

to fly business class
I always prefer to fly business class 
when I have a trip for work.

Here's a tip!
"Business class" is more expensive and 
comfortable than the regular "coach class" 
or "economy class", which is the cheapest way to fly.

"Business class" is cheaper than "first class", 
which is the most expensive way to fly.

I usually fly business class, 
as it's more comfortable than coach class, 
but cheaper than first class.

I've booked your tickets; you're flying business class.
We say "business class" for the area 
on the plane designated for business travellers.

to check in
It's an international flight, 
so I want to check in two hours before.

We use "to check in for a flight" 
when we officially confirm we are travelling before flying.

Here's a tip!
We say "to check in" when you let someone know 
you have arrived somewhere. So, as well as with flights,
 we use "to check in" with hotels.

Most people check in online before they get to the airport.
You have to go check in at the reception before you get your keys.

to depart
Flight 765 to Barcelona will depart in 15 minutes.

to arrive
Your flight is due to arrive in Barcelona at 15:35.

Here's a tip!
We say "to depart from" a city, country or airport.

We say "to arrive at" with most places, 
e.g. an airport or a train station, 
but we say "to arrive in" with a city or country.

We are departing from Barcelona in 20 minutes.
We are arriving at Manchester airport in 3 hours.
We are arriving in Manchester in 3 hours.

My flight leaves London at 9:50 and arrives
in Madrid two hours later.
The verb "to depart" means "to leave"; 
"to arrive" is the opposite.

I hope we depart from London on time.
I hope we don't arrive in Portugal too late.

We say "to depart from" and "to arrive in" 
with a city or country.

a destination
We have reached our destination. Welcome to London!

It's a long flight, so it will be late 
when I reach my destination.



I'm flying business class.

I've checked in online.

I'll arrive at my destination late.

We say "arrive at your destination" 
to mean "reach the place you are going to".

You have arrived at your destination.
Another way to say "to arrive 
at your destination" is "to reach your destination".

I'm flying business class. My destination is Rio de Janeiro.

You need to check in for international flights 
at least two hours before you depart.



The plane departs at 10.50 and arrives at 13.00 local time.

We need to check in two hours before we leave.

You need to hurry up. 
The plane is going to depart soon.

VOCABULARY
to fly business class
to check in
to depart
to arrive
a destination

-------------------------------------------------

Getting ready to fly
Practise listening and reading about travel arrangements

Gary:
Hi Lisa! This is Gary from the travel department. 
We've made all the arrangements for your trip next Monday.

Lisa:
Great, thanks Gary. What do I need to know?

Gary:
OK, your flight leaves at 10:50 from London Gatwick. 
You're flying business class with British Air Travel. 
We've booked you a taxi to the airport at 8:00 am.

Lisa:
Thanks Gary. I have a meeting now, 
so can you email me the details?

Gary:
Sure, I'll explain everything else in the email.


Lisa is going on a business trip.

Gary has made the travel arrangements.

Lisa's flight departs at 10.50.
Gary says "Your flight leaves at 10.50"; 
the verb "to leave" is similar to "to depart".

Gary has booked Lisa a taxi to the airport.
Lisa is flying business class.

Hi again Lisa
As discussed, please find attached your flight details. 
You need to check in, which I recommend you do online on Sunday.

Your flight departs at 10:50 from Gatwick and 
arrives in Madrid at 13:30, where a driver will meet you 
to take you to your hotel. 
I'm also attaching the hotel reservation for 4 nights.

The hotel, flights and taxis have already been paid for, 
but please take your company card for any additional transport 
and all your meals.

Have a great trip!
Gary Morgan

Lisa's destination is Madrid.
Lisa is going on a trip to Madrid, 
so her "destination" is Madrid.

Before her flight, Lisa needs to check in.

Gary has booked a hotel for Lisa for four nights.
We use "to book a hotel" to mean "to make a reservation".

Gary's email includes all the travel arrangements 
he has made.
We say "travel arrangements" to include things 
like buying tickets, booking a hotel, etc.

We use "travel expenses" for things like transport 
and meals that a company pays for on a trip.

Lisa has a company card to pay for any necessary travel expenses.

The company will pay Lisa's travel expenses.

--------------------------------------------------
Developing fluency
Practise talking about travel arrangements

I made some travel arrangements for a trip
I'm going on next Monday.
I am flying business class departing from New Daliy
at 8am. I will arrive to my destination Dubai after 4hours later.

I've made some travel arrangements.

Ari's assistant has done everything 
except check in "to check in".

I've got a company card for travel expenses.
We say "a company card" for a corporate credit card, 
which could be used for "travel expenses".

I'm going on a business trip to Paris. 
My secretary's made some travel arrangements.

We say "a trip" as it's countable. 
We can use "travel" with other nouns.

Karen says "my plane departs", 
which means "my plane leaves".

My plane departs at midday.

I'll reach my destination quite late.
We often use "to reach" with "destination"; 
we could also use "to arrive at".

---------------------------------------------------

Getting around the airport
Find your way around an airport

a carry-on
I'm going on a short business trip, 
so I'm only taking a carry-on.

checked baggage
Please read our policy on checked baggage before you fly.

I'm only taking a carry-on for this short trip.
We use a "carry-on" for the luggage 
we take into the plane with us.

We use a "carry-on" for the bag we take with us; 
"checked baggage" goes in a separate place.

Here's a tip!

As well as "checked baggage", we say "checked luggage".
Both "baggage" and "luggage" are uncountable. 
This means we cannot use "a" before them. 
Instead, we use "a piece of...".

Do you have any checked baggage?
Do you have any checked luggage?

I only have one piece of checked baggage.
I only have one piece of checked luggage.


you can take this on the plane with you - a carry-on

this goes in a separate part of the plane - checked baggage

Another way to say a "carry-on" is "hand luggage".

a window seat
Could I have a window seat, please?

an aisle seat
I'd prefer an aisle seat if possible.

We say "aisle seat" because an "aisle" is the long,
narrow space where people walk.

Here's a tip!
Don't get confused by the spelling of "aisle". 
The pronunciation is the same as "I'll".

Listen to the example.
I'll have an aisle seat, please.

a middle seat
I don't mind paying extra 
so I don't have to sit in the middle seat.



You can see outside the plane in the window seat.

You are nearer the toilets and the exit in the aisle seat.

You sit between two other people in the middle seat.

If you are flying business class, 
there are usually two types of seat: "window" or "aisle".

a boarding pass
Here's your boarding pass. Enjoy your flight!

We say "a boarding pass" for the card or 
electronic ticket with a passenger's flight information.

You can print your boarding pass or download it on your phone.

We use a "boarding pass" for the printed 
or electronic card that passengers get after checking in.

a departure lounge
Please wait in the departure lounge 
for more information about your flight.

We say the "departure lounge" for the area 
where passengers wait before they get on their plane.

We're early. Let's wait in the departure lounge.

We say the "departure lounge" for the area of the airport 
where passengers wait for their flights.

Do you just have one piece of checked luggage and a carry-on?

Would you like a window seat or do you prefer the aisle?

Here's your boarding pass, can you please wait in the departure lounge?

Remember the opposites: 
"checked luggage" and a "carry-on", "window seat" and "aisle seat".

Do you have any checked baggage?

Would you prefer a window seat or an aisle seat?

You need a boarding pass before you go through to the departure lounge.

When passengers have a "boarding pass" 
they can wait in the "departure lounge".

Can I see your boarding pass, please?
This is a typical question you might be asked in the airport

You can wait for your flight in the departure lounge.

VOCABULARY
a carry-on

checked baggage

a window seat

an aisle seat

a middle seat

a boarding pass

a departure lounge

---------------------------------------------------
Taking flights
Describe flight preferences

a gate
Could all passengers for flight A79 to London please go to gate 18.

the boarding gate
We use "gate" for the place where passengers get on their plane.



Here's a tip!
At the airport, as well as simply a "gate" you also hear 
a "departure gate" or a "boarding gate", all with the same meaning.

The flight is departing soon, so let's wait at our gate.

The flight is departing soon, so let's wait at our departure gate.

The flight is departing soon, so let's wait at our boarding gate.

Your plane is going to depart soon. 
Please go straight to boarding gate 60.
We use "gate", "boarding gate" or 
"departure gate" with the same meaning (gate).

an announcement
Please listen to the announcements 
in case there are any changes to your flight.

We use an "announcement" for a public message, e.g. in an airport.

I think the plane might be late 
but I'm waiting to hear the announcement.
We say an "announcement" 
for a public message or official statement.

a delay
During the busy holiday periods there are often delays to flights.

Their flight is late.
We use a "delay" for something that happens later than planned.

Here's a tip!

As well as a "delay", we often say 
"to be delayed" to talk about flights that are late.
We are sorry to inform you of a delay in the departure of flight C178.
We are sorry to inform you that flight C178 has been delayed.

Oh no! There's a delay. I'm going to be late for my meeting.
We use "the flight is delayed" to mean "there is a delay to the flight".

to board
Hurry up! It's nearly time to board!

to get on the plane
We use "to board"to mean "to get on" a plane, train or boat.


We are ready to board the plane from gate 18.
We use "to board" to mean "to get on the plane".

to take off
Could all passengers please stay in their seats as we prepare to take off.

to land
We're going to land in New York at 7.30 am local time.

The plane is going to leave.
We use "to take off" for aircraft to mean "to leave the ground".

Please do not use your computer when we take off or later when we land.
We use "to take off" to mean "to leave the ground"; the opposite is "to land".



Please listen to the announcements in case there is a delay.

Flight KM345 is now ready to board from gate 11.

You should not use your mobile phone while we take off or land.

Please listen to the announcements for your boarding time.
We form the word "announcement" from the verb "announce" (announce) + "ment".

We are sorry to inform you of a delay to flight FR345 to Helsinki.

We will board the plane to Gothenburg from gate 29 in ten minutes.
We use "board" to mean "get on the plane"; 
the place where we board ("board") is a "gate".

Could all business class passengers be ready to board the plane.
We combine the letters "oar" to make one sound, so "board" sounds like "bored".

We say "take off" to mean "leave the ground"; the opposite is "land".

We're taking off now. I'll call you when we land in Singapore.

At the start of a flight, a plane 
"takes off" (take off)"; when it arrives, it "lands" ("land").

VOCABULARY

a gate

an announcement

a delay

to board

to take off

to land

----------------------------------------------------
Checking in

Practise listening at the airport
Mike: Hi there. Can I see your passport, please?
Adriana: Here you are.
Mike: Is it just this one piece of checked luggage?
Adriana: Yes, that's it.
Mike: And what about a carry-on?
Adriana: Sorry?
Mike: Do you have any hand luggage?
Adriana: Ah yes, this bag. Is it OK to take my laptop, too?
Mike: Yes, that's fine, but remember to turn it off 
	when you take off and land. OK, 
	there are no middle seats in business class on this flight, 
	so would you prefer a window seat or an aisle seat?
Adriana: I'll have a window seat, please.
Mike: OK, here's your boarding pass. 
	Your boarding time should be 8.20 am 
	if there are no delays. Now, please go to the departure lounge 
	and wait for an announcement about your gate.

You can take a laptop in your carry-on, 
but you must not use it when the plane takes off.

Remember to turn your laptop off when you take off and land.
When we use "to take off" to talk about aircraft, it means "to leave the ground

a carry-on - checked baggage

an aisle seat - a window seat

to take off - to land

Adriana should board the plane at 8.20am if there aren't any delays.

Please go to the departure lounge and wait for an announcement about your gate.
We use "gate" for the smaller part of a "departure lounge" where we board.

Adriana is taking a carry-on and has one piece of checked luggage.

She has a boarding pass, but must wait for an announcement about her gate.

She should wait in the departure lounge until it's time to board.










































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































