Chapter 6: Email basics

Starting a business email
Learn how to start a business email

Dear Sir or Madam,

We use "Dear Sir or Madam" when writing an email 
to someone whose name we don't know.

Here's a tip!
We use "Dear Sir or Madam" to start a formal email 
to someone we do not know.

We use "Dear Ms/Mrs/ Mr... "and their surname 
to start a formal email if we know the reader's name.

We use "Dear... "or "Hello/Hi..." and 
the first name when we write a less formal 
business email to someone we already know.

Formal emails
Dear Sir or Madam
Dear Marcos

Informal emails
Dear Ms Rossi
Hi Sandra

Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to ask 
for some information.

To whom it may concern,
We use "To whom it may concern" to open 
a formal email to someone we don't know personally.

Being inclusive
The phrase "to whom it may concern" is 
a more gender inclusive way of saying "Dear Sir or Madam".

We use "to whom it may concern" to include non-binary readers.

To whom it may concern,...
I'm writing to ask for some more information 
about your products.

To whom it may concern, 
I am writing to ask for some information.

We use "whom" instead of "who" 
after a preposition, like "to", "from", "at", etc.

Dear...Sir or Madam
To...whom it may concern

We use "Dear Sir or Madam" and 
"To whom it may concern" 
when the recipient's gender is unknown.

Thank you for contacting...

Dear Ms Fry, thank you for contacting Moon Moda...

The writer uses "thank you for contacting Moon Moda", 
so this email is a reply to Ms Fry.

Here's a tip!

Although "contact" has a similar meaning to "write to" 
or "speak to" someone, we don't use "to" after "contact".

Thank you for contacting me so quickly. 
Thank you for contacting the Accounts department.

Thank you for writing to me so quickly.
Thank you for writing to the Accounts department.

Thank you for contacting Busuu.
When using the verb "contact", we don't use 
the preposition "to" before the object e.g. "Busuu".

Thank you for your prompt reply.

We use "thank you for your prompt reply" 
to thank someone for answering us quickly.

Thank you for your prompt reply.
Try to remember "Thank you for your prompt reply" 
as a fixed phrase.

VOCABULARY
Dear Sir or Madam,
To whom it may concern,
Thank you for contacting...
Thank you for your prompt reply.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Writing a business email
Learn how to use fixed phrases for emails

I'm writing to...
"I'm writing to" is a good way to start your email 
with your reason for writing.

I'm writing to give you the information you requested.
To state our reason for writing, 
we use the phrase "I'm writing to" + verb 
in base form: "give".

regarding
I am writing to you regarding your job application.








































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































