Chapter 5: Telephone basics

Making phone calls
Learn language for making business calls

to call from
Good morning, this is Mike, calling from the London office.
Hello, this is Tim, I am calling from the finance department.

We use "to call from" 
to introduce the company or place that we work for.

I'm calling from Network Solutions about the internet access.

We use the phrase "I'm calling from" 
to give your company or your location.

to call about
I'm calling about the meeting next week.

Hi, Sorry For Late.
I have the busy day.
Anyway, I'm calling about the changes to the order.

She uses "I'm calling about" to introduce 
why she's calling: "changes to the order".

I'm calling about the interview time.

to call back
She'll call back when she's free.

I'm busy now.
I will call back later.

She's not here; can you call back later?
Use "to call back" to politely ask someone
 to call again at another time.

She is calling from...Computer Solutions Inc.
She is calling about...the internet issues.

We use "calling from" before our company name, 
and "calling about" before the topic of the call.

I'm calling from Computer Solutions 
about the internet problems.

We use "from" to say our company and 
"about" to give the reason for calling.

I'm calling about tomorrow's meeting.

VOCABULARY
to call from
to call about
to call back

----------------------------------------------------

Using the phone
Learn more language for making business calls

to pick up
Can you pick up the phone?

The phone is ringing.
Can you pick and help the customer?

"to pick up" means to answer the phone 
when it rings.

Here's a tip!
We can pick up the phone or 
we can pick the phone up.

When we use it, we always say pick it up (pick up it).

I always pick up the phone when the CEO calls me.
I always pick the phone up when the CEO calls me.
I always pick it up when the CEO calls me.

You should pick the phone up by the third ring.
It's important to "pick up" the phone quickly 
to help customers or talk to colleagues.

an extension number
What's the extension number for marketing?

Call the extension number 201
to speak the Anna in finance department.

An "extension number" connects you 
with a specific person or department in a company.

You won't find the extension number for R & D on our website.

a freephone number

For orders, please dial the freephone number on our website.

You can reach customer service
and no cost by using a free phone numbers.

A "freephone number" is a phone number 
that you can call for free.

For any complaints or feedback, 
use our customer service freephone number.
In the USA, a "freephone number" is usually called a "toll-free number".

a country code
What is the country code for Germany?

I need to talk to Lwis?
Do you know the code for Spain?

A "country code" is a number you dial 
before a local number when calling internationally.

To reach our Tokyo office, dial the country code +81, 
followed by the local number.

Every country has its own unique "country code".

VOCABULARY
to pick up
an extension number
a freephone number
a country code

----------------------------------------------------
Starting a phone call
Learn how to start a phone call

to call on behalf of
I'm calling on behalf of Rosita Espinosa.

I'm calling on behalf of Mr Greene.
He's in a meeting at the moment.
We use "I'm calling on behalf of" 
when we make a call in someone's place.

I'm calling on behalf of Mr. Smith.
He asked me to call as he is busy now.

We say "I'm calling on behalf of..." 
when we are making a phone call in place of someone else.

I'm calling to
I'm calling to ask for some information.

Hi, this is the Sarah from the computer solution.
I'm calling to help you with your laptop.

She says "I'm calling to help you with your laptop", 
which explains the reason for her call.

I'm calling to tell you about a special offer.
We use "I'm calling to" + verb 
in the infinitive form ("tell") to say why we are calling.

I'm calling to...ask for some information.
I'm calling on...behalf of Heidi Baker.

to put someone through
Can you put me through to Fara Williams, please?

The phrase "to put someone through" means 
to connect a caller with another person by phone.

Can you put me through to Robert Williamson, please?

On the phone, ask "can you put me through to..."
and the name of the person you want to speak to.

to transfer
Hello! Could you transfer me to Carolina Gomez from Finance, please?

She says "Can you transfer me to the finance department?", 
so this person is not from finance.

"to put through" and"to transfer" both mean "to connect".

Could you put me through to Molly Caan, please?
Could you transfer me to Harris Oglou, please?

Remember, "to put...through" has a similar meaning to "to transfer".

VOCABULARY
to call on behalf of

I'm calling to

to put someone through

to transfer

---------------------------------------------------
Answering a phone call
Learn to take incoming calls

May I ask who’s calling?
"May I ask who's calling?" is a polite way 
to ask for the caller's name.

May I ask who's calling, please?
"May I ask who's calling?" is a common 
question to hear on the telephone.

Can you hold, please?

Can you hold, please? 
I'm going to put you through to Ms Gomez.

"Can you hold?" is short 
for "Can you hold the line?", meaning "Can you wait, please?".

Can you...hold, please?
May I...ask who's calling?

She's busy at the moment.
We use "she's busy at the moment" to say someone is not available.

The line is engaged.
We use "the line's engaged" to say it's being used in another call.

Here's a tip!

We say "the line's engaged" or "the number's engaged" 
when it's being used in another call.

In American English it is more common 
to say "the line's busy" or "she/he's busy" 
to say someone is not available.

UK
I'm sorry, the line's engaged. 

US
I'm sorry, the line's busy.

Remember, "engaged" in UK English means the same 
as "busy" in US or UK English.

He's out of the office.
We say someone is "out of the office" 
when they are not in the building.

Here's a tip!

We say someone is "out of the office" 
to mean they are not in the company building, 
but they could be on holiday, ill 
or working from home.

Notice we say "out of the office". 
It's different from "out of office", 
an automatic email reply.

Alex Warren is out of the office this week.

I received Alex's out of office reply when I emailed him.

I'm sorry, Mr Williams is out of the office today.

We use "out of the office" when someone 
is not in the company building.

He's out of the office...until next Monday.
The line's engaged...please try again later.

VOCABULARY
May I ask who’s calling?

Can you hold, please?

She's busy at the moment.

The line is engaged.

He's out of the office.

---------------------------------------------------

Making a phone call
Practise making a phone call

Receptionist:
Good morning, Greta speaking. 
How can I help you?

Caller:
Hello could you put me through 
to Mr Joshua Philips in the sales department, please?

Receptionist:
Can I ask who's calling?

Caller:
I'm calling on behalf of Ariana Muller; 
I'm her secretary, Dennis Moon. 
She asked me to call about some products 
we've received.

Receptionist:
Can you hold, please, while I put you through.....
I'm sorry, Mr Philips' line's engaged. 
Could you try again later?

Caller:
I'll try in the morning. 
I'm a bit busy later today.

Receptionist:
I'm afraid Mr Philips will be out of the office 
all day tomorrow. 
Let me try again now to see if I can transfer you.

Dennis Moon is calling on...　behalf of Ariana Muller.
Dennis Moon is calling to...speak about some products.
The receptionist tries to...transfer his call twice.












































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































