
Chapter 9: Teamwork

Talking about your tasks
Describe tasks you're working on

What are you working on?

We use "What are you working on?" to ask about 
the work someone is currently doing.
We use "to be working on" to talk about a task that's in progress.

Do you need any help?

She's offering to help her colleague.
We use "Do you need any help?" when we offer someone assistance.
We can offer to help someone by asking "Do you need any help?".

Sorry, I can't talk now.
I'm in the middle of something.

We say "I'm in the middle of something" 
when we are busy doing something.

Can you give me a minute?
We use "Can you give me a minute?" to ask someone to wait a little time.

Here's a tip!

Don't confuse "Can you give me a minute?" with "Do you have a minute?".

1. We use "Can you give me a minute?" to ask someone to wait a moment.
2. We use "Do you have a minute?" to ask someone if they are free.
1. Can you give me a minute to finish what I'm doing?
2. Do you have a minute? I need to talk to you about something. 

Sorry, I'm in the middle of something; can you give me a minute?

I'll be with you shortly.

I know you need some help
But, I just finishing something.
I'll be with you shortly.

We use "I'll be with you shortly" 
to say we will make time for someone soon.

Can you give me a minute? I'll be with you shortly.
The word "shortly" in "I'll be with you shortly" means "soon".

I'll get back to you.

We use "I'll get back to you" to say 
we will talk later because we can't talk now.

I'm in the middle of something, so I'll get back to you later.
We use "I'll get back to you" 
when we return to a conversation later.

Tomorrow is your presentation.
Do you need any help or have you prepared everything?

What are you working on?

Can you give me a minute?

I'll be with you shortly.

I'll get  back to you later.

I'm in the middle of something.
Do you need any help?

VOCABULARY

What are you working on?

Do you need any help?

I'm in the middle of something.

Can you give me a minute?

I'll be with you shortly.

I'll get back to you.

-------------------------------------------
Describing your tasks
Practise skills for talking about work tasks

Marek: Hi Elena! 
    Just thought I'd send you a quick message. 
    How's your first week going? 
    What are you working on now? 
    Do you need any help with anything?

What are you working on?

We use "What are you working on?" 
to ask about someone's current tasks.

Marek offers Elena help by asking: 
"Do you need any help?".

Marek asks "Do you need any help?, 
which is a way of offering help to Elena.

Elena: Hi Marek. 
    Thanks for asking. 
    I'm working on the new design you showed me, 
    but I'd really like to talk about it if you're free now .
Marek: Sorry, Elena, 
    I'm actually in the middle of something right now, 
    but I'll be free after lunch. 
    I'll get back to you then. 
    Maybe Pawel is free if you need to talk to someone now. 
    I'll ask him to call you.

I'll get back to you after lunch.
We use the particle "back" with various verbs 
to add the idea of returning to something.

Pawel: Hi Elena! Marek said you need some help. 
    I'll be happy to help, but can you give me a minute? 
    I've nearly finished something I'm working on, 
    but I'll be with you shortly. 
    Let's have a meeting at 11.30. 
    I'll send you an invitation.

I'll be with you shortly.
When we ask "Can you give me a minute?", 
we mean "a short time", not an actual minute.

Can you give me a minute?

I'll be with you shortly.

--------------------------------------------
Organising meetings
Learn to organise and confirm a meeting

to be available
I'm available at 2pm on the 18th.

Are you available next Thursday morning?
The word "available" is a more formal way to say "free".

to book a meeting room
Can you book a meeting room for tomorrow?

We use "book" to mean "reserve".

to confirm
Can you confirm 5pm on the 30th?

Please confirm you can come to the meeting on Monday, 
then I will book a meeting room.
Before a meeting, it is common to confirm ("confirm") our attendance.

to cancel a meeting
I'm sorry, I have to cancel the meeting.

We use "cancel" to mean "decide or state that an event will not happen".

Sorry, but we have a problem with our internet, 
so we have to cancel today's online meeting.
We use "cancel" with meetings to say that they will not take place.

to rearrange
Could we rearrange the meeting for next week?

We use "rearrange" when we organise 
for something to take place at a different time than planned.

We need to rearrange the meeting that we cancelled yesterday.
We say "rearrange" when we organise the time of an event again.

Let's see if there's an available meeting room 
and then book it for the meeting we've confirmed.

I forgot to book a meeting room, so there's not one available now.

Don't forget to book a meeting room!

They've confirmed the meeting, It will happen today.

They've cancelled the meeting, It will not happen.

They've rearranged the meeting, It will happen on a different day.

I'm sorry, I have to cancel the meeting.

I think I can come to the meeting, but I'll confirm later.

Sorry, but we have to cancel today's meeting and rearrange it for another day.

VOCABULARY

to be available

to book a meeting room

to confirm

to cancel a meeting

to rearrange

---------------------------------------------

Booking a meeting room
Learn how to book a meeting room

to check availability
I'll call the conference centre to check the availability of meeting rooms.























































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































